Item 1A. Risk Factors. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC include the following: Risks Related to Our Business The continuation of the recent financial crisis could materially and adversely affect our business, our liquidity and financial condition. Worldwide financial markets have recently experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption including, among other things, dislocation in the mortgage and asset-backed securities markets, deleveraging and decreased liquidity generally, widening of credit spreads, bankruptcies and government intervention in a number of large financial institutions. These events have resulted in extraordinary responses by governments worldwide. These conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. In the event that these conditions persist and result in a prolonged economic downturn or recession, our results of operations, our financial condition and/or liquidity, and competitor landscape could be materially and adversely affected. A prolonged recession and other adverse consequences as a result of the significant turmoil in the U.S. and international financial markets could harm our business, our liquidity and financial condition, and our share price. The U.S. and international financial markets have been severely disrupted. These conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged recession, may potentially affect various aspects of our business, including the demand for and claims made under our products, our counterparty credit risk and the ability of our customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. Continued volatility in the U.S. and other securities markets may also adversely affect our share price. There is limited historical information available for investors to evaluate our performance. We began underwriting reinsurance transactions in July 2007. As a result, there is limited historical information available to help investors evaluate our performance. In addition, in light of our limited operating history and the recent GMAC Acquisition, our historical financial statements are not necessarily meaningful for evaluating the potential of our future operations. Because our underwriting and investment strategies differ from other participants in the property and casualty reinsurance and insurance markets, you may not be able to compare our business or prospects to other property and casualty reinsurers. The anticipated benefits of the GMAC Acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The GMAC Acquisition involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The two companies have and will continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies. Delays in this process could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and share price. Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether both businesses are integrated in an efficient and effective manner, and general competitive factors in the marketplace. We may experience unanticipated difficulties or expenses in connection with integrating these businesses, including: • retaining existing employees, clients, brokers, agents and program administrators, • retaining and integrating management and other key employees, and • potential charges to earnings resulting from the application of purchase accounting to the transaction. Even if the business operations are integrated successfully, there can be no assurance that we will realize the full benefits of synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies that we currently expect from this 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. Failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management’s time and energy and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Reinsurance — Other segment may be adversely affected if we do not receive regulatory approval to acquire Integon and we are unable to find an alternative insurer to front this business when our fronting arrangement with Motors expires. A ratings downgrade of Motors would adversely affect our ability to retain GMAC RE customers. As we transition the existing relationships with Motors to Maiden Reinsurance in the U.S., Motors will continue to write our client contracts for a period of up to 24 months. Motors will in turn cede 100% of the business written to Maiden Insurance during this period. Once our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are fully licensed, the business will be transitioned from Motors. Motors currently maintains an A- negative outlook rating from A.M. Best. Should Motors suffer a ratings downgrade below A- negative during the transitional period, the successful transition of all of the GMAC RE clients to Maiden cannot be assured. While best efforts will be undertaken to transition all of the GMAC RE active client accounts from Motors to Maiden Reinsurance, there can be no certainty that all business underwritten by GMAC RE will effectively transition. We are dependent on AmTrust and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business. We currently derive the substantial majority of our reinsurance business from AmTrust and we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our business from AmTrust in the near term. We commenced our reinsurance business by providing traditional quota share reinsurance to AmTrust through the Quota Share Agreement with AII, assuming initially a 40% quota share portion of the net liabilities less recoveries of the policies written by AmTrust. In addition, effective January 1, 2008, we have a 45% participation in the working layer of AmTrust’s workers’ compensation excess of loss reinsurance program. The “working layer” of AmTrust’s excess of loss reinsurance program is the layer immediately above AmTrust’s retention. At present, the working layer is $9 million of losses and loss adjustment expenses per occurrence in excess of AmTrust’s $1 million per occurrence retention, subject to an annual aggregate deductible in the amount of $1.25 million. Accordingly, we are dependent on AmTrust and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business. Our Quota Share Agreement with AII has an initial term of three years (which runs until June 30, 2010), subject to certain early termination provisions (including if the A.M. Best rating of Maiden Insurance is reduced below “A-”) and our asset management agreement with an AmTrust subsidiary had an initial term of one year and automatically renews for one year terms, subject to certain early termination provisions. The Quota Share Agreement and the asset management agreement will be extended for additional terms of three years and one year, respectively, unless either party elects not to renew. There is no assurance that any of these agreements or our reinsurance brokerage or brokerage services agreements with AmTrust will not terminate. The termination of the Quota Share Agreement would significantly reduce our revenues during our initial years of operation and the termination of any of these agreements would increase our dependence on third-party insurance companies, managing general agents, reinsurance brokers and other service providers to support our business and would have a material adverse effect on us. At the same time, there are risks related to the business of AmTrust and its insurance subsidiaries that may adversely impact our ability to continue doing business with them. In addition, we are not able to control the types or amounts of reinsurance AmTrust purchases from unaffiliated reinsurers, and any changes AmTrust makes to such reinsurance may affect our profitability and ability to write additional business. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our initial arrangements with AmTrust were negotiated while we were its affiliate. The arrangements could be challenged as not reflecting terms that we would agree to in arm’s-length negotiations with an independent third party; moreover, our business relationship with AmTrust and its subsidiaries may present, and may make us vulnerable to, possible adverse tax consequences, difficult conflicts of interest, and legal claims that we have not acted in the best interest of our shareholders. We entered into the Quota Share Agreement with AII, AmTrust’s Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary, which reinsures AmTrust’s insurance company subsidiaries, and a Master Agreement with AmTrust, pursuant to which we and AmTrust agreed that we will cause Maiden Insurance to enter into the Quota Share Agreement. The asset management agreement with an AmTrust subsidiary, the reinsurance brokerage agreement with an AmTrust subsidiary, the warrants issued to our Founding Shareholders and the provisional employment agreement with our former Chief Executive Officer and present director Max G. Caviet were negotiated while we were an affiliate of AmTrust. These circumstances could increase the likelihood that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) would claim that the agreements between us and AmTrust were not concluded on an arm’s-length basis and any such assertion, if not disproved by us, could result in adverse tax consequences to us. Because (i) our Founding Shareholders collectively own or control approximately 59% of the outstanding shares of AmTrust’s common stock, (ii) our Founding Shareholders sponsored our formation, (iii) our Founding Shareholders’ common shares, together with the 10-year warrants to purchase additional common shares that we issued to our Founding Shareholders in connection with our formation and capitalization, as well as common shares issued in the TRUPS Offering, represent approximately 30.1% of our outstanding common shares assuming all of the warrants are exercised, and (iv) we and AmTrust recently had some overlapping executive management, as described below, we therefore may be deemed an affiliate of AmTrust. Due to our close business relationship with AmTrust, we may be presented with situations involving conflicts of interest with respect to the agreements and other arrangements we will enter into with AmTrust and its subsidiaries, exposing us to possible claims that we have not acted in the best interest of our shareholders. The arrangements between us and AmTrust were modified somewhat after they were originally entered into and there could be future modifications. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” The Chairman of the Board currently holds the positions of President and Chief Executive Officer of AmTrust, and our former Chief Executive Officer and present director is currently employed by AmTrust as an executive officer. These dual positions may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest and related legal challenges. Barry D. Zyskind, our Chairman of the Board, is the President, Chief Executive Officer and director of AmTrust and, as such, he does not serve our company on a full-time basis. Mr. Zyskind is expected to continue in both of his positions for the foreseeable future. In addition, Max G. Caviet, our former Chief Executive Officer and present director, is currently employed by AmTrust as an executive officer. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to AmTrust or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiary, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of AmTrust and Maiden Holdings diverge. Because AmTrust was our only significant customer until November 2008, remains our largest customer, and is expected to remain our largest customer for at least the next several years, AmTrust has the ability to significantly influence such situations. Mr. Zyskind’s service as our Chairman of the Board and President, Chief Executive Officer and director of AmTrust, and Mr. Caviet’s service on our Board of Directors and prior service as our President and Chief Executive Officer and as president of two of AmTrust’s subsidiaries, could also raise a potential challenge under antitrust laws. Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act, or the Clayton Act, prohibits a person from serving as a director or officer in any two competing corporations under certain circumstances. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have substantial credit exposure to AmTrust due to the business relationship between us and AmTrust and AII. Due to the business relationship between AmTrust, AII and Maiden Holdings, we have substantial credit exposure to them. AmTrust is a holding company, and we have no contractual relationships with any of its subsidiaries that write insurance, other than AII. We are not entitled to the same rights as a reinsurance company with a direct contractual relationship with AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries such as the right to enforce such contracts or to pursue damages directly against such subsidiaries. Any failure by AmTrust or AII to honor obligations to us whether due to inability or refusal to perform, or otherwise, would likely have a material adverse effect on us. If opportunities for writing reinsurance and insurance through Maiden Re do not materialize as we expect, our dependence on AmTrust for a substantial portion of our business will continue, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We believe that there will be opportunities to renew and write new reinsurance and insurance through Maiden Re. However, we cannot assure you that Maiden Re will retain its customers or write new business as we expect. Other companies might offer reinsurance and insurance products on more competitive terms than we can provide. Under these circumstances, we might not be able to expand our specialty property/casualty reinsurance business beyond the Quota Share Agreement with AII, which would increase our dependence on AmTrust and have a material adverse effect on our ability to fully implement our business strategy as well as on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our key executives. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees or successfully integrate our new management team to fully implement our newly formulated business strategy. Our success depends largely on the senior management of Maiden Holdings, which includes, among others, Art Raschbaum, our President and Chief Executive Officer, John Marshaleck, our Chief Operating Officer and Secretary, and Michael J. Tait, our Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Raschbaum, Marshaleck and Tait. We have entered into employment agreements with seven additional former key employees of GMAC RE. These employees were instrumental in developing the GMAC RE book of business and will be managing the retention of that business as it transfers to Maiden Reinsurance. Barry D. Zyskind, our Chairman of the Board, is the President, Chief Executive Officer and director of AmTrust but is not employed by us and does not have an employment agreement with us. Therefore, Mr. Zyskind will devote only limited time to our company. We do not maintain key man life insurance coverage on the lives of any of our senior management. Our inability to attract and retain additional personnel or the loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate our executive or other personnel after we commence operations. Maiden Insurance and Maiden Reinsurance have received financial strength ratings of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best. Ratings downgrades of either company may adversely affect our competitive position and our ability to meet our financial goals. Competition in the types of insurance business that we intend to reinsure is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A.M. Best is generally considered to be the most important rating agency in connection with the evaluation of reinsurance companies by their customers. Generally, the objective of the rating agencies’ rating systems is to provide an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to its policyholders and are not evaluations directed to investors in a company’s securities or recommendations to buy, sell or hold such securities. A.M. Best maintains a letter scale rating system ranging from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation). A.M. Best’s ratings are generally based on a quantitative evaluation of a company’s performance with respect to profitability, leverage and liquidity and a qualitative evaluation of spread of risk, investments, reinsurance programs, reserves and management. In addition, its ratings take into consideration 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS the fact that we only commenced our operations in June of 2007. A reinsurer’s ratings are used by ceding companies, retrocessional reinsurers and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of the reinsurer. In addition, the rating of a company seeking reinsurance, also known as a ceding company, may be adversely affected by the lack of a rating of its reinsurer. Therefore, the lack of a rating or a poor rating may dissuade a ceding company from reinsuring with us or may influence a ceding company to reinsure with a competitor of ours. Maiden Insurance and Maiden Reinsurance have each received a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which is the fourth highest of sixteen rating levels. A rating from A.M. Best indicates A.M. Best’s opinion of our financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to our future policyholders. The ratings of Maiden Insurance and Maiden Reinsurance are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at the sole discretion of, A.M. Best. A.M. Best formally evaluates its financial strength ratings of insurance companies at least once every twelve months and monitors the performance of rated companies throughout the year. The maintenance of the assigned ratings will depend upon Maiden Insurance and Maiden Reinsurance operating substantially as our management has represented to A.M. Best. If A.M. Best subsequently downgrades Maiden Insurance’s rating below “A-,” All would have the right to terminate the Quota Share Agreement. If A.M. Best were to downgrade either Maiden Insurance or Maiden Reinsurance, its competitive position would suffer, and its ability to market its products, to obtain customers and to compete in the reinsurance industry would be adversely affected. A subsequent downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business because AmTrust and our other insurance and reinsurance company clients may move to other reinsurers with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our and AmTrust’s growth and our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. We used approximately $450.0 million of the $500.0 million in net proceeds we received from the private offering and the $50.0 million our Founding Shareholders invested in us to capitalize Maiden Insurance in 2007. We used a portion of the $260 million raised in the TRUPS Offering to capitalize Maiden Reinsurance. We may need to raise additional funds to further capitalize Maiden Insurance and Maiden Reinsurance. We anticipate that any such additional funds would be raised through equity or debt financings. In addition, we may enter into an unsecured revolving credit facility and a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. We currently have no commitment from any lender with respect to a credit facility or a loan facility. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, the interest of shareholders in our company would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shares. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We expect our business to grow in the future as we continue our relationships with existing customers, including AmTrust while seeking opportunities to reinsure other insurance companies operating in similar niches. We do not have specific targets or time frames for growth. Expansion of our business could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire qualified employees or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire. The failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business in Bermuda could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Currently, we employ five non-Bermudians in our Bermuda office including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Operating Officer. We may hire additional non-Bermudians as our business grows. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of permanent residents’ certificates 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS and holders of working residents’ certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian, or holder of a permanent resident’s or working resident’s certificate who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer has applied for the job. The Bermuda government’s policy places a six year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to five years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our non-Bermudian employees if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our actual (re)insured losses may be greater than our loss reserves, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our success will depend upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we will reinsure. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and the reporting of the loss by the insurer to its reinsurer. After we begin to write reinsurance business and to recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we will establish loss reserves as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves will represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer or reinsurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments, particularly for new companies, such as ours, that have no loss development experience. As part of our reserving process, we will review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: • trends in claim frequency and severity; • changes in operations; • emerging economic and social trends; • inflation; and • changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. We will establish or adjust reserves for our insurance subsidiaries in part based upon loss data received from the ceding companies with which we do business, including AmTrust. There is a time delay that elapses between the receipt and recording of claims results by the ceding insurance companies or by the managing general agents and the receipt and recording of those results by us. Accordingly, establishment and adjustment of reserves for our insurance subsidiaries is dependent upon timely and accurately estimate reporting from cedants and agents. Furthermore, Maiden Insurance is a new company, and other than through its traditional quota share reinsurance business from AmTrust and the business acquired in the GMAC Acquisition, it has very limited loss experience and a relatively small population of underlying risks for at least our early years. Therefore, Maiden Insurance will be exposed to an increased likelihood that actual results may not conform to our estimates. To the extent our loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses and loss adjustment expenses, we will have to adjust our loss reserves and may incur charges to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our business is dependent upon reinsurance brokers, managing general agents and other producers, including third party administrators and financial institutions, and the failure to develop or maintain these relationships could materially adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. We market our reinsurance products primarily through brokers, managing general agents and other producers, including third party administrators and financial institutions. We expect that we will derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of brokers and managing general agents. Our failure to further develop or maintain relationships with brokers and managing general agents from whom we expect to receive our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we anticipate that we will frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers in turn are required to pay and will pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we will write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency under local laws or contractual obligations, notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums from the brokers. Consequently, we will assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we work, with respect to most of our reinsurance business. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. Although our business focus generally precludes us from writing significant amounts of catastrophe exposed business in our reinsurance segment, most property reinsurance contains some exposure to catastrophic loss. Our Reinsurance — Other segment does include exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. The incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms and large-scale terrorist attacks, are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. In either case, the consequences could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. These losses could eliminate our shareholders’ equity. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses from catastrophic events in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). Although an individual insurance or reinsurance company’s financial performance is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance and reinsurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Beginning in 2000 and accelerating in 2001, the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry experienced a market reflecting increasing premium rates and more conservative risk selection. We believe these trends slowed beginning in 2004 and, until recently, that the market had transitioned to a more competitive environment in which underwriting capacity and price competition has increased. This additional underwriting capacity resulted in increased competition from other insurance and reinsurance companies expanding the types or amounts of business they write, or from companies seeking to maintain or increase market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. However, the current market appears to be in a state of flux. Because this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. These cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common stock to be volatile. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although we engage in other businesses, 46.6% of premiums written in 2008 was attributable to reinsurance of workers’ compensation insurance. As a result, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, if legislators in our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under workers’ compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, or if regulators made other changes to the regulatory system governing workers’ compensation insurance, this could negatively affect the workers’ compensation insurance industry in the affected markets. In Florida, our largest state in terms of workers’ compensation premium volume, and in certain other states, insurance regulators set the premium rates. Insurance regulators may set rates below those required to maintain profitability on our worker’s compensation business. A substantial portion of our funds will be loaned to AII to be placed in trusts for the benefit of AmTrust’s insurance companies or will be placed in trusts for the benefit of other ceding companies. Generally, under U.S. state insurance laws, a ceding company is not permitted to take credit for reinsurance in its statutory financial statements (meaning that it is not permitted to reduce its liabilities in such financial statements by the amount of losses ceded to a reinsurer) unless the reinsurer is accredited, licensed or otherwise approved by the insurance regulator in the ceding company’s state of domicile or provides collateral to secure its obligations to the ceding company under the reinsurance agreement. Acceptable collateral for these purposes can take a number of forms, including a “funds withheld” account (in which the ceding company retains control of the funds representing premiums transferred to the reinsurer and deducts ceded losses from such funds), letters of credit or a trust account established for the benefit of the ceding company (often called a “Regulation 114 trust”). We expect that Maiden Insurance will not be an accredited, licensed or otherwise approved reinsurer in any U.S. state and that it will establish Regulation 114 trusts or post letters of credit for the benefit of its ceding companies domiciled in the United States (or, in the case of reinsurance of business written by U.S. subsidiaries of AmTrust, that it will lend funds on an unsecured basis to AII as described below). A Regulation 114 trust must be funded in an amount equal to at least 102% of the reinsurer’s obligations to the ceding company in order for the ceding company to receive credit for reinsurance on its statutory financial statements. As a result of our planned use of Regulation 114 trusts, a substantial portion of our assets will not be available to us for other uses, which will reduce our financial flexibility. Further, Maiden Insurance has agreed to collateralize its obligations under the Quota Share Agreement with AII by one or more of the following methods at the election of Maiden Insurance: • by lending funds (which may include cash or investments) on an unsecured basis to AII pursuant to a loan agreement between Maiden Insurance and AII with such funds being deposited by AII into the trust accounts established or to be established by AII for the sole benefit of AmTrust’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries pursuant to the reinsurance agreements between AII and those AmTrust subsidiaries; • by transferring to AII assets for deposit into those trust accounts; • by delivering letters of credit to the applicable U.S. AmTrust insurance subsidiaries on behalf of AII; or • by requesting that AII cause such AmTrust insurance subsidiary to withhold premiums in lieu of remitting such premiums to AII. As a result of our planned use of Regulation 114 trusts accounts or letters of credit and our election to lend funds to AII, a substantial portion of our assets, including a disproportionate share of our higher-quality fixed-income investments, will not be available to us for other uses, which will reduce our financial flexibility. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS If collateral is required to be provided to any other AmTrust insurance company subsidiaries under applicable law or regulatory requirements, Maiden Insurance will provide collateral to the extent required, although Maiden Insurance does not expect that such collateral will be required unless an AmTrust insurance company subsidiary is domiciled in the United States. Maiden Insurance currently is satisfying its collateral requirements under the Quota Share Agreement by lending funds (which may include cash or investments) on an unsecured basis to AII pursuant to a loan agreement. As of December 31, 2008, $168.0 million was on loan to AII. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” Maiden Insurance is not a party to the reinsurance agreements between AII and AmTrust’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries or the related reinsurance trust agreements and has no rights thereunder. If one or more of these AmTrust subsidiaries withdraws Maiden Insurance’s assets from their trust account, draws down on its letter of credit or misapplies withheld funds that are due to Maiden and that subsidiary is or becomes insolvent, we believe it may be more difficult for Maiden Insurance to recover any such amounts to which we are entitled than it would be if Maiden Insurance had entered into reinsurance and trust agreements with these AmTrust subsidiaries directly. AII has agreed to immediately return to Maiden Insurance any collateral provided by Maiden Insurance that one of those subsidiaries improperly utilizes or retains, and AmTrust has agreed to guarantee AII’s repayment obligation and AII’s payment obligations under its loan agreement with Maiden Insurance. We are subject to the risk that AII and/or AmTrust may be unable or unwilling to discharge these obligations. In addition, if AII experiences a change in control and Maiden Insurance chooses not to terminate the Quota Share Agreement, AmTrust’s guarantee obligations will terminate immediately and automatically. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” The outcome of recent insurance industry investigations and legislative and regulatory proposals in the United States could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The United States insurance industry has been the focus of scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities, as well as class action attorneys and the general public, relating to allegations of improper special payments, price-fixing, bid-rigging, improper accounting practices and other alleged misconduct, including payments made by insurers to brokers and the practices surrounding the placement of insurance business. It is difficult to predict the outcome of these investigations, whether they will expand into other areas not yet contemplated, whether activities and practices currently thought to be lawful will be characterized as unlawful, what form any additional laws or regulations will have when finally adopted and the impact, if any, of such regulatory and law enforcement action and litigation on our business and financial condition. In addition Congress has examined a possible modification or repeal of the McCarran-Ferguson Act, which exempts the insurance industry from federal anti-trust laws, has been on the agenda of the United States Congress for some time. We cannot assure you that the McCarran-Ferguson Act will not be modified or repealed, or that any such repeal, if enacted, would not have a enforcement action and litigation on our business and financial condition. We compete with a large number of companies in the reinsurance industry for underwriting revenues. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. There are many reinsurers throughout the world, and new reinsurance companies, based in Bermuda or elsewhere, may be formed at any time. We will compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. reinsurers that offer the lines of reinsurance that we will offer, target the same market as we do and utilize similar business strategies. We compete with various reputable and established reinsurers, such as PartnerRe Ltd., Max Capital Group Ltd., Munich Reinsurance America Inc, Swiss Re, and General Reinsurance Corporation, Endurance Specialty Holdings Ltd., Folksamerica Holding Company Inc., Platinum Underwriters Holdings Ltd., and SCOR Reinsurance Company. Since we have a limited operating history, many of our competitors will have greater name and brand recognition than we will have. Many of them also have more (in some cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than we expect to have, and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we expect to, or will be able to, offer. Our competitive position will be based on many factors, including our perceived financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), knowledge of the types of business to be reinsured, speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. Since we have just recently commenced operations, we may not be able to compete successfully on many of these bases. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. Consolidation in the insurance and reinsurance industry and increased competition on premium rates could lead to lower margins for us and less demand for our products and services. The insurance and reinsurance industry is undergoing a process of consolidation as industry participants seek to enhance their product and geographic reach, client base, operating efficiency and general market power through merger and acquisition activities. We believe that the larger entities resulting from these mergers and acquisition activities may seek to use the benefits of consolidation, including improved efficiencies and economies of scale, to, among other things, implement price reductions for their products and services to increase their market shares. Consolidation among primary insurance companies may also lead to reduced use of reinsurance as the resulting larger companies may be able to retain more risk and may also have bargaining power in negotiations with reinsurers. If competitive pressures compel us to reduce our prices, our operating margins will decrease. As the insurance and reinsurance industry consolidates, competition may become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could reduce our operating margins. When the property-casualty insurance industry has exhibited a greater degree of competition, premium rates have come under downward pressure as a result. Greater competition could result in reduced volumes of reinsurance written and could reduce our profitability. We may misevaluate the risks we seek to reinsure. Our success will rely upon the ability of our underwriters and actuaries to accurately assess the risks associated with the programs and treaties that we reinsure. Like other reinsurers, we will not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. Thus, we will be largely dependent on the original underwriting decisions made by ceding companies. We will be subject to the risk that our ceding companies may not have adequately evaluated the individual risks to be reinsured and that the premiums ceded to us may not adequately compensate us for the risks we assume. Reinsurance of AmTrust’s insurance companies could expose us to substantial liability. Because a substantial portion of our reinsurance business is with AmTrust, our results will be dependent on the results of operations of AmTrust’s insurance company subsidiaries. We have entered into the Quota Share Agreement with AII, through which we reinsure 40% of the losses of AmTrust’s insurance company subsidiaries, net of reinsurance with unaffiliated reinsurers. If market conditions change during the term of this agreement, we will be adversely affected should AmTrust’s underwriting results deteriorate during that period. We will not be able to control AmTrust’s decisions relating to its other reinsurance, and AmTrust may change its reinsurance in ways that adversely affect us. The reinsurance ceded by AmTrust is net of any reinsurance that AmTrust obtains from unaffiliated reinsurers. For example, Maiden Insurance will receive 40% of AmTrust’s premiums (net of commissions in the case of AmTrust’s UK subsidiary) net of premiums ceded to unaffiliated reinsurers, and will be liable for 40% of losses and loss adjustment expenses on the ceded business net of any reinsurance recoverable (whether collectible or not) from unaffiliated reinsurers. We are not able to control the types or amounts of reinsurance that AmTrust purchases from unaffiliated reinsurers. AmTrust may change its unaffiliated reinsurance in ways that may adversely affect us. For example, if AmTrust purchases less excess of loss reinsurance, the amount of risk ceded to us under the Quota Share Agreement with AII will increase, although the Quota Share Agreement excludes coverage of any policy written by AmTrust in which AmTrust’s net retention exceeds $5 million. Conversely, if AmTrust chose to purchase additional reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers, AmTrust would reduce our revenues. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Quota Share Agreement provides coverage for extra-contractual obligations and losses in excess of policy limits that AII or the AmTrust insurance subsidiaries may incur. From January 1, 2008 to January 1, 2010, AmTrust retain the first $1 million per occurrence on workers’ compensation claims other than those arising out of acts of terrorism. AmTrust’s reinsurance for such claims totals $129.0 million, structured as a five layer tower. The first layer of this reinsurance provides $9.0 million of coverage per occurrence in excess of a $1.0 million retention. It has an annual aggregate deductible of $1.25 million and reinsures losses in excess of $1.0 million up to $10.0 million. 45% of this layer is reinsured by Maiden Insurance. The second layer provides $10.0 million of coverage per occurrence in excess of $10.0 million. This layer reinsures losses in excess of $10.0 million up to $20.0 million. The third layer provides $30.0 million of coverage per occurrence for claims in excess of $20.0 million. This layer provides coverage for losses in excess of $20.0 million up to $50.0 million. It has limits of $10.0 million per individual (it has an aggregate limit of $60.0 million for the entire 12-month contract period). The fourth layer provides $30.0 million of coverage per occurrence for claims in excess of $50.0 million. It has limits of $10.0 million per individual and an aggregate limit of $60.0 million for the entire 12-month contract period. The fifth layer provides $50.0 million of coverage per occurrence for claims in excess of $80.0 million. It reinsures losses greater than $80.0 million up to $130.0 million. It has limits of $10.0 million per individual and an aggregate limit of $100.0 million for the entire 12-month contract period. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism. U.S. insurers are required by state and Federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States Congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (“TRIA”) requires commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a Federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 (“TRIEA”) extended the Federal assistance program through 2007, but it also set a per-event threshold that must be met before the federal program becomes applicable and also increased insurers’ statutory deductibles. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007 (“TRIPRA”) extends the Federal assistance program through 2014. Pursuant to TRIA, as extended, U.S. insurance companies must offer insureds coverage for acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, for an additional premium or decline such coverage. The Federal government will reimburse commercial insurers for up to 85% of the losses due to certified acts of terrorism in excess of a deductible which, for 2008, is set at 20% of the insurer’s direct earned commercial lines premiums for the immediately preceding calendar year. The Federal reimbursement is triggered only after a per-event threshold, referred to as the program trigger, has been reached. In the case of certified acts of terrorism taking place after March 31, 2006, the program trigger throughout the seven-year duration of the program has been set at $100 million for industry-wide insured losses. TRIPRA also expanded the definition of Act of Terrorism by removing the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism. The federal terrorism risk assistance provided by TRIA, TRIEA and TRIPRA will expire at the end of 2014. Any renewal may be on substantially less favorable terms. Pursuant to the Quota Share Agreement and the reinsurance agreements that we anticipate that our reinsurance subsidiaries will enter into with others. Our subsidiaries will reinsure a portion of each ceding insurer’s losses resulting from terrorism. With respect to those reinsurance agreements that we have entered into to date, either terrorism coverage is specifically excluded or we do not consider exposure to terrorist acts to be significant. Although we expect that Maiden Insurance will seek to retrocede some or all of this terrorism risk to unaffiliated reinsurers, it may be unable to do so on terms that it considers favorable, or at all. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may or may not use retrocessional coverage to limit our exposure to risks. Any retrocessional coverage that we obtain may be limited, and credit and other risks associated with our retrocessional reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We will provide reinsurance to our clients and in turn we may or may not retrocede reinsurance we assume to other insurers and reinsurers. If we do not use retrocessional reinsurance, our exposure to losses will be greater than if we did obtain such coverage. If we do obtain retrocessional coverage, some of the insurers or reinsurers to whom we may retrocede coverage may be domiciled in Bermuda or other non-U.S. locations. We would be subject to credit and other risks that depend upon the financial strength of these reinsurers. Further, we will be subject to credit risk with respect to any retrocessional arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires would not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of any retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We will attempt to mitigate such risks by retaining collateral or trust accounts for premium and claims receivables, but nevertheless we cannot be assured that reinsurance will be fully collectable in the case of all potential claims outcomes. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. A recent example of emerging claims and coverage issues is the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in our industry. The effects of this and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Maiden Holdings is a holding company. As a result, we do not have, and will not have, any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries. We expect that dividends and other permitted distributions from Maiden Insurance and Maiden NA will be our sole source of funds to pay dividends to shareholders and meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments, if any, and other expenses. Bermuda law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Bermuda insurance regulations, will restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Maiden Insurance, unless specific regulatory requirements are met. In addition, Maiden Insurance might enter into contractual arrangements in the future that could impose restrictions on any such payments. If we cannot receive dividends or other permitted distributions from Maiden Insurance as a result of such restrictions, we will be unable to pay dividends as currently contemplated by our board of directors. Maiden Insurance is currently able to pay us dividends in an amount in excess of $75 million. The inability of Maiden Insurance to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act, we may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or would after the payment be, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS The ability of Maiden Reinsurance to pay dividends is regulated, and under certain circumstances, restricted, pursuant to applicable law. If Maiden Reinsurance cannot pay dividends to Maiden NA, Maiden NA may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to Maiden Holdings, which may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, Maiden Reinsurance could pay dividends to Maiden NA approximately $0.8 million without prior regulatory approval. Any dividends paid by Maiden Reinsurance would reduce its surplus. Insurance statutes and regulations in various jurisdictions could affect our profitability and restrict our ability to operate. Maiden Insurance is licensed as a Bermuda insurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermuda statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. We intend that Maiden Insurance will not be registered or licensed as an insurance company in any jurisdiction outside Bermuda, will conduct business through offices in Bermuda and will not maintain an office or conduct any insurance or reinsurance activities in the United States or elsewhere outside of Bermuda. Nevertheless, we expect that a large portion of the gross premiums written by Maiden Insurance will be derived from the Quota Share Agreement with AII, pursuant to which Maiden Insurance reinsures a quota share of insurance written by AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries, and from reinsurance contracts entered into with entities domiciled in the United States. Inquiries into or challenges to the insurance activities of Maiden Insurance may still be raised in the future. In addition, even if Maiden Insurance, as a reinsurer, is not directly regulated by applicable laws and regulations governing insurance in the jurisdictions where its ceding companies operate, these laws and regulations, and changes in them, can affect the profitability of the business that is ceded to Maiden Insurance, and thereby affect our results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to direct insurers could indirectly affect us in other ways as well, such as collateral requirements in various U.S. states to enable such insurers to receive credit for reinsurance ceded to us. In the past, there have been congressional and other proposals in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States. Our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that Maiden Insurance is intended to be domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. Bermuda is a small jurisdiction and may be disadvantaged when participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading European Union countries. This disadvantage could be amplified by the fact that Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future, including potentially seeking independence. If Maiden Insurance were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the United States or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than Bermuda laws and regulations, at any time in the future, it might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant amount of our invested assets are subject to changes in interest rates and market volatility. If we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. We plan to invest approximately 90 – 95% of our investments in high grade marketable fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and approximately 5 – 10% in other securities which may include high-yield securities and equity securities. As a result of market conditions prevailing at a particular time, the allocation of our portfolio to various asset types may vary from these targets at times. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets will fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because we intend to classify substantially all of our invested assets as available for sale, we expect changes in the market value of our securities will be reflected in shareholders’ equity. Our board of directors has established our investment 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS policies and our management is in the process of implementing our investment strategy with the assistance of AII Insurance Management Limited (“AIIM”) our investment manager. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investment results will be subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in general economic conditions and overall market conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. General economic conditions and overall market conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. Our investment portfolio includes a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under reinsurance policies, our liquidity needs could be substantial and may increase at any time. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio and future investment income. For example, changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on mortgage-backed securities included in our investment portfolio (all of which are currently agency-backed and AAA rated). Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. If interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. Certain categories of fixed income securities can experience significant price declines for reasons unrelated to interest rates. For example, since the summer of 2007, segments of the bond market have experienced a substantial decline due to spillover effects from the problems affecting the subprime mortgage industry. The difficult conditions in the credit market that currently exist continue to affect many types of fixed income securities. We may invest a portion of our portfolio in below investment-grade securities. Borrowers that issue below investment-grade securities are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. The risk of default by these borrowers and the risk that we may not be able to recover our investment is significantly greater than for other borrowers. We also may invest a portion of our portfolio in equity securities, including hedge funds, which are more speculative and more volatile than debt securities. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. For this or any of the other reasons discussed above, investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility. In connection with the TRUPS Offering, Maiden NA issued a subordinated debenture in the principal amount of $260 million, which is the subject of a subordinated guarantee by Maiden Holdings. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility. Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: • limiting our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders; • increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; and • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Shares A few significant shareholders may influence or control the direction of our business. If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may limit your ability and the ability of other shareholders to influence significant corporate decisions. The interests of our Founding Shareholders may not be fully aligned with your interests, and this may lead to a strategy that is not in your best interest. As of March 27, 2009, our Founding Shareholders beneficially owned approximately 30.1% of our outstanding common shares assuming the exercise of their warrants in Maiden. Although they do not act as a group, our Founding Shareholders exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and their concentrated holdings may delay or deter possible changes in control of Maiden Holdings, which may reduce the market price of our common shares. We currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per common share; however, any determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors currently intends to authorize the payment of a cash dividend of $0.06 per common share each quarter. Any determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory, rating agency and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant, including Bermuda legal and regulatory constraints. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause the price of our shares to be volatile. The revenues and results of operations of reinsurance companies historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets; • changes in the frequency or severity of claims; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks; • price competition; • inadequate reserves; • cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance market; • negative developments in the specialty property and casualty reinsurance sectors in which we operate; and • reduction in the business activities of AmTrust or any of our ceding insurers. If our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our shares may be volatile. Future sales of shares may adversely affect their price. Future sales of our common shares by our shareholders or us, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As of March 27, 2009, 70,287,664 common shares are outstanding (including 11,700,000 of our common shares that will be registered pursuant to the TRUPS Offering). In addition, we have reserved 2,800,000 shares for issuance under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan. Under this plan, we have granted options exercisable for, in the aggregate, 1,519,834 of our common shares. In addition, we issued ten-year warrants to our Founding Shareholders to purchase an additional 4,050,000 of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing price of the shares and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future, or for shareholders to sell their shares, at a time and price that they deem appropriate. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our internal control and reporting systems might not be effective in the future, which could increase the risk that we would become subject to restatements of our financial results or to regulatory action or litigation or other developments that could adversely affect our business. Our ability to produce accurate financial statements and comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our maintenance of internal control and reporting systems, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and accounting and actuarial personnel to further develop our internal accounting function and control policies. If we fail to effectively establish and maintain such reporting and accounting systems or fail to attract and retain personnel who are capable of designing and operating such systems, these failures will increase the likelihood that we may be required to restate our financial results to correct errors or that we will become subject to legal and regulatory infractions, which may entail civil litigation and investigations by regulatory agencies including the SEC. In addition, if our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and our financial flexibility and the value of our stock could be adversely impacted. We are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. We are subject to financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. In particular, we are, or will be, required to: • enhance the roles and duties of our board of directors, our board committees and management; • supplement our internal accounting function, including hiring staff with expertise in accounting and financial reporting for a public company, as well as implement appropriate and sufficient accounting and reporting systems, and enhance and formalize closing procedures at the end of our accounting periods; • prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws; • involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above; • establish or outsource an internal audit function; • enhance our investor relations function; and • establish new control policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures, segregation of duties and procedures and insider trading. These obligations require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements, and implementing them could adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, if we fail to implement the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis would be impaired. Provisions in our bye-laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares. In general, and except as provided under our bye-laws and as provided below, the common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of shareholders. However, if, and so long as, the shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as determined pursuant to sections 957 and 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) of any U.S. Person (as that term is defined in “Material Tax Considerations”) (that owns shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by such U.S. Person will be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our board may limit a shareholder’s voting rights when it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder; and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any direct or indirect shareholder or its affiliates. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares that a U.S. Person is 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among our other shareholders whose shares were not “controlled shares” of the 9.5% U.S. Shareholder so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to become a 9.5% U.S. Shareholder. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. We are authorized under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If any holder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Examples of provisions in our bye-laws that could have such an effect include the following: • our board of directors may reduce the total voting power of any shareholder in order to avoid adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any direct or indirect holder of our shares or its affiliates; and • our directors may, in their discretion, decline to record the transfer of any common shares on our share register, if they are not satisfied that all required regulatory approvals for such transfer have been obtained or if they determine such transfer may result in a non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequence to us or any direct or indirect holder of shares or its affiliates. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, amalgamation, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our shares may consider favorable. These provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect various corporate actions. These provisions could: • have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; • discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price; • adversely affect the price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our securities; or • impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management. In addition, AII is entitled to terminate the Quota Share Agreement if we undergo a change in control. Because we expect the business we reinsure from AmTrust to constitute a substantial portion of our business for at least our first few years of operations, this termination right may deter parties who are interested in acquiring us, may prevent shareholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our common shares and may depress the price of our common shares below levels that might otherwise prevail. Applicable insurance laws regarding the change of control of insurance companies may limit the acquisition of our shares. Under Bermuda law, for so long as Maiden Holdings has an insurance subsidiary registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10% or more of its 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the BMA may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of common shares in Maiden Holdings and direct, among other things, that such shareholder’s voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offense. This may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. In addition to the foregoing, we are subject to U.S. state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our U.S. insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. Under the laws of most U.S. states, any beneficial owner of 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of an insurance company or its holding company is presumed to have acquired control, unless this presumption is rebutted. These laws may also discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. Any person having a shareholding of 10% or more of the issued share capital in Maiden Holdings would be considered to have an indirect holding in our U.S. insurance subsidiaries at or over the 10% limit. Any change that resulted in the indirect acquisition or disposal of a shareholding of greater than or equal to 10% in the share capital of Maiden Holdings may require approval of the relevant U.S. state insurance regulators prior to the transaction. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who own shares of a U.S. corporation. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, including modifications adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, applicable to us which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Bermuda law provides that if a director has a personal interest in a transaction to which the company is also a party and if the director discloses the nature of this personal interest at the first opportunity, either at a meeting of directors or in writing to the directors, then the company will not be able to declare the transaction void solely due to the existence of that personal interest and the director will not be liable to the company for any profit realized from the transaction. In addition, Bermuda law and our bye-laws provide that, after a director has made the declaration of interest referred to above, he is allowed to be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the relevant board meeting. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if: • the material facts as to such interested director’s relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the board of directors and the board in good faith authorizes the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; • such material facts are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote on such transaction and the transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or • the transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified. Under Delaware law, such interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which such director derived an improper personal benefit. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. The amalgamation of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation (other than certain affiliated companies) requires the amalgamation agreement to be approved 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS by the company’s board of directors and by its shareholders. Under our bye-laws, we may, with the approval of a majority of votes cast at a general meeting of our shareholders at which a quorum is present, amalgamate with another Bermuda company or with a body incorporated outside Bermuda. In the case of an amalgamation, a shareholder may apply to a Bermuda court for a proper valuation of such shareholder’s shares if such shareholder is not satisfied that fair value has been paid for such shares. Under Delaware law, with certain exceptions, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the assets of a corporation must be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Under Delaware law, a stockholder of a corporation participating in certain major corporate transactions may, under certain circumstances, be entitled to appraisal rights pursuant to which such stockholder may receive cash in the amount of the fair value of the shares held by such stockholder (as determined by a court) in lieu of the consideration such stockholder would otherwise receive in the transaction. Shareholders’ Suit. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to stockholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Indemnification of Directors. We may indemnify our directors or officers in their capacity as directors or officers of any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers. We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, some of our directors and officers may reside outside the United States, and all or a substantial portion of our assets will be and the assets of these persons are, and will continue to be, located in jurisdictions outside the United States. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS We have been previously advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as the experts named in this prospectus, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. Risks Related to Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2016, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and on an investment in our shares. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Maiden Holdings, Maiden Insurance or any of their respective operations or their respective shares, debentures or other obligations (except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by them in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them) until March 28, 2016. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s expected assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 28, 2016. Since Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. The impact of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s directive to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and periodically updated, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. We may be subject to U.S. federal income tax, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares. If either Maiden Holdings or Maiden Insurance were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. federal income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. business or in the case of Maiden Insurance, if it is entitled to benefits under the United States income tax treaty with Bermuda and if Maiden Insurance were considered engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment, Maiden Insurance could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of its earnings that are attributable to its permanent establishment in the United States, in which case its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance are Bermuda companies. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies should operate in such a manner that neither of these companies should be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business and, thus, should not be subject to U.S. federal 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS taxation (other than the U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because (i) there is considerable uncertainty as to activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States, (ii) a significant portion of Maiden Insurance’s business is reinsurance of AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries and Maiden Insurance may have difficulty in significantly expanding its reinsurance business beyond its agreement with AmTrust, (iii) Maiden Insurance has entered into a brokerage services agreement with IGI Intermediaries, Inc. (“IGI Inc.”) (an AmTrust subsidiary that provides brokerage services in the United States), (iv) our Chairman of the Board is AmTrust’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain of our executive officers or directors and former executive officers are also either executive officers of AmTrust or related to directors of AmTrust, including (a) our former interim Chief Financial Officer for part of 2007 was at the time and is AmTrust’s Chief Financial Officer, (b) our former Chief Executive Officer is currently an executive officer of AmTrust and a present director of the Company, and (c) one of our directors is related to two directors of AmTrust and a significant shareholder of AmTrust, (v) we have an asset management agreement with a subsidiary of AmTrust and may also have additional contractual relationships with AmTrust and its subsidiaries in the future (see “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions”), and (vi) the activities conducted outside the United States related to Maiden Insurance’s start-up were limited, we cannot be certain that the IRS will not contend successfully that we are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S. Potential Additional Application of the Federal Insurance Excise Tax. The IRS, in Revenue Ruling 2008-15, has formally announced its position that the U.S. federal insurance excise tax (the “FET”) is applicable (at a 1% rate on premiums) to all reinsurance cessions or retrocessions of risks by non-U.S. insurers or reinsurers to non-U.S. reinsurers where the underlying risks are either (i) risks of a U.S. entity or individual located wholly or partly within the United States or (ii) risks of a non-U.S. entity or individual engaged in a trade or business in the United States which are located within the United States (“U.S. Situs Risks”), even if the FET has been paid on prior cessions of the same risks. The legal and jurisdictional basis for, and the method of enforcement of, the IRS’ position is unclear. Maiden Insurance has not determined if the FET should be applicable with respect to risks ceded to it by, or by it to, a non-U.S. insurance company. If the FET is applicable, it should apply at a 1% rate on premium for all U.S. Situs Risks ceded to Maiden Insurance by a non-U.S. insurance company, or by Maiden Insurance to a non-U.S. insurance company, even though the FET also applies at a 1% rate on premium ceded to Maiden Insurance with respect to such risks. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. If you are a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation (defined as a U.S. Person who owns (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively (as defined below)) at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote) that is a controlled foreign corporation, which we refer to as a CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, you must include in your gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if 10% U.S. Shareholders own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code) (that is, “constructively”) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that non-U.S. corporation or the total value of all stock of that corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) by 10% U.S. Shareholders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. For purposes of this discussion, the term “U.S. Person” means: (i) an individual citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate, the income of 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (x) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (y) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. Because our Founding Shareholders owned all of the shares of Maiden Holdings prior to July 3, 2007, Maiden Holdings was a CFC during the period of 2007 prior to July 3, 2007. Following the 2007 private offering, Barry Zyskind may be treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance as a result of his seat on the board of Maiden Holdings and George Karfunkel and/or Michael Karfunkel may be treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance as a result of Yehuda Neuberger’s seat on the board of Maiden Holdings, because of Mr. Neuberger’s significant familial connections to the Karfunkels and, through them, to AmTrust. We believe, subject to the discussion below, that because of the anticipated dispersion of our share ownership, provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power (these provisions are described under “Description of Share Capital”) and other factors, no U.S. Person who acquired our shares directly or indirectly through one or more non-U.S. entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of Maiden Holdings’ or Maiden Insurance’s shares. However, the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of the provisions in our organizational documents and a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. Person (other than Barry Zyskind, George Karfunkel and Michael Karfunkel) who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. Shareholder. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at common income rates on their proportionate share of Maiden Insurance’s related person insurance income. If U.S. persons are treated as owning 25% or more of Maiden Insurance’s shares (by vote or by value) (as is expected to be the case) and the related person insurance income (or RPII) of Maiden Insurance (determined on a gross basis) were to equal or exceed 20% of Maiden Insurance’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, then a U.S. Person who owns any shares of Maiden Insurance (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of Maiden Insurance’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date, regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by Maiden Insurance (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Maiden Insurance. As of December 31, 2008, we believe that either (i) the direct or indirect insureds of Maiden Insurance (and related persons) should not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares or (ii) the RPII (determined on a gross basis) of Maiden Insurance should not equal or exceed 20% of Maiden Insurance’s gross insurance income for the taxable year ending December 31, 2008 and we do not expect both of these thresholds to be exceeded in the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of their gains if any. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Maiden Holdings will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance is uncertain. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if Maiden Holdings is considered to be a passive foreign investment company. If Maiden Holdings is considered a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g. through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to a tax on amounts in advance of when such tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if Maiden Holdings were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning our shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, and we currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, there can be no assurance that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. For example, if Maiden Insurance is not able to expand its reinsurance business beyond its agreements with AmTrust, the IRS may successfully conclude that we should be characterized as a PFIC. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. The IRS may take the position that transactions between AmTrust and Maiden Insurance do not constitute insurance or that Maiden Insurance is not engaged in the active conduct of an insurance business, due to the proportion of Maiden Insurance’s premiums provided by AmTrust subsidiaries. The IRS, in Revenue Ruling 2005-40, took the position that a transaction between an insurer and an insured did not provide risk distribution, and thus was not insurance for U.S. federal income tax purposes, when the insured provided over 90% of the insurer’s premiums for the year. We do not believe the IRS would attempt to apply such a rule to quota share reinsurance transactions in which the ceding company cedes a significant number of unrelated risks to the reinsurer, even if the ceding company provided substantially all of the reinsurer’s business, nor do we believe the IRS would be successful if it took such a position. Nevertheless, if the IRS successfully asserted such a position, and transactions between AmTrust and Maiden Insurance were not considered insurance, Maiden Holdings could be considered a PFIC. Further, it is possible that Maiden Insurance may not qualify for the insurance income exception to the PFIC rules for any taxable year in which its only business was the reinsurance of affiliates of AmTrust. As noted above, there could be material adverse tax consequences for an investor were Maiden Holdings to be considered a PFIC. The Quota Share Agreement between Maiden Insurance and AmTrust may be subject to recharacterization or other adjustment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Under section 845 of the Code, the IRS may allocate income, deductions, assets, reserves, credits and any other items related to a reinsurance agreement among certain related parties to the reinsurance agreement, or in circumstances where one party is an agent of the other, recharacterize such items, or make any other adjustment, in order to reflect the proper source, character or amount of the items for each party. In addition, if a reinsurance contract has a significant tax avoidance effect on any party to the contract, the IRS may make adjustments with respect to such party to eliminate the tax avoidance effect. No regulations have been issued 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS under section 845 of the Code. Accordingly, the application of such provisions is uncertain and we cannot predict what impact, if any, such provisions may have on us. U.S. tax-exempt organizations that own our shares may recognize unrelated business taxable income. A U.S. tax-exempt organization may recognize unrelated business taxable income if a portion of our insurance income is allocated to the organization, in which case the tax-exempt entity generally should be subject to the unrelated business income tax. In general, insurance income will be allocated to a U.S. tax-exempt organization if either (i) we are a CFC (which should be the case if 10% U.S. Shareholders own 25% or more of our voting power or value) and the tax-exempt shareholder is a 10% U.S. Shareholder or (ii) U.S. Persons own 25% or more of our shares, we insure directly or indirectly our direct or indirect shareholders that are U.S. Persons or persons related to such shareholders, and certain exceptions do not apply. Although we do not believe that any U.S. tax-exempt organizations should be allocated such insurance income, we cannot be certain that this will be the case. Potential U.S. tax-exempt investors are advised to consult their own tax advisers. Changes in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. Legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. It is possible that legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse effect on us, or our shareholders. For example, one legislative proposal would reduce or eliminate the tax deduction for reinsurance premiums paid by a U.S. insurer or reinsurer to an affiliate in a lower tax jurisdiction, such as Bermuda. Any such change in U.S. tax law could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the “subpart F income” or the RPII of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. We may be subject to United Kingdom taxes, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares. A company which is resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes is subject to UK corporation tax in respect of its worldwide income and gains. Neither Maiden Holdings nor Maiden Insurance is incorporated in the UK. Nevertheless, Maiden Holdings or Maiden Insurance would be treated as being resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes if its central management and control were exercised in the UK. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company’s affairs, which is wholly a question of fact. The directors and officers of both Maiden Holdings and Maiden Insurance intend to manage their affairs so that both companies are resident in Bermuda, and not resident in the UK, for UK tax purposes. However, Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs could challenge our tax residence status. A company which is not resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes can nevertheless be subject to UK corporation tax at the rate of 30% if it carries on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK, but the charge to UK corporation tax is limited to profits (including income profits and chargeable gains) attributable directly or indirectly to such permanent establishment. The directors and officers of Maiden Insurance intend to operate the business of Maiden Insurance in such a manner that it does not carry on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK. Nevertheless, Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs might contend successfully that Maiden Insurance is trading in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute carrying on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK. 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS The UK has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. Companies that are neither resident in the UK nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the UK and the jurisdiction in which they are resident are liable to income tax in the UK, at the basic rate of 22%, on the profits of a trade carried on in the UK, where that trade is not carried on through a permanent establishment in the UK. The directors and officers of Maiden Insurance intend to operate the business in such a manner that Maiden Insurance will not fall within the charge to income tax in the UK (other than by way of deduction or withholding) in this respect. If either Maiden Holdings or Maiden Insurance were treated as being resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes, or if Maiden Insurance were treated as carrying on a trade in the UK, whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise, the results of the Group’s operations would be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 