Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are the most significant risk factors that could impact our business, financial results and results of operations. Investing in our common stock involves risks, including those described below. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described below, other risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these identified or other risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Further deterioration of economic conditions in our primary market of California, could seriously impair the value of our loan portfolio and adversely affect our results of operations. All our real estate loans are secured by properties located in California. Decreases in California real estate values beginning in 2008 and continuing through the current period have adversely affected the value of properties collateralizing our loans. The S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index for the Los Angeles Metropolitan Area declined by approximately 17.3% in the beginning of 2008 and 38.4% in June 2012 as compared to the high reported in 2006. According to the Freddie Mac Multifamily Research Perspective published in April 2012, multifamily property values fell 40.0% from peak (the first quarter of 2007) to trough (the third quarter of 2009). Since reaching a low in 2009, multifamily values have recovered to 2004 levels but are still 25.0% lower than the peak in 2007. As of June 30, 2012, 96.3% or $741.8 million of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate. Although the impact on the Bank of the negative credit cycle has stabilized and credit quality indicators have improved, as a result of the prolonged weak economy in California, our levels of non-performing and delinquent loans are still elevated as compared to pre-2008 levels. At June 30, 2012, loans delinquent 90 days or more totaled $7.6 million, or 1.0% of total loans compared to $6.2 million, or 0.8% of total loans at June 30, 2009. At June 30, 2012, non-performing loans totaled $25.4 million, or 3.3% of total loans compared to $8.9 million, or 1.2% of total loans at June 30, 2009. In the event that we are required to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan or pursue other remedies in order to protect our investment, there can be no assurance that we will recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance as a result of prevailing general economic or local conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying the loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans. Consequently, we would sustain significant loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan loss expense. Adverse changes in the economy may also have a negative effect on the ability of borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which could have an adverse impact on earnings. See “Item 1-Business- Market Area- Asset Quality.” Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our level of multi-family residential real estate and commercial real estate loans which could increase our level of provision for loan losses. Our outstanding multi-family residential real estate and commercial real estate loans accounted for 48.1% of our total loan portfolio as of June 30, 2012. Generally, management considers these types of loans to involve a higher degree of risk compared to permanent first mortgage loans on one-to-four family, owner occupied residential properties. These loans have higher risks than permanent loans secured by residential real estate for the following reasons: — Multi-Family Residential Real Estate Loans. These loans are underwritten on the income producing potential of the property, financial strength of the borrower and any 47 Table of Contents guarantors. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. At June 30, 2012, 36.8% of our total loan portfolio consisted of multi-family loans, and we intend, subject to market conditions, to grow multi-family residential loans as part of our diversified loan portfolio. A significant portion of our multi-family residential loans are relatively new or “unseasoned,” and have not been outstanding for a sufficient period of time to demonstrate performance and indicate the potential risks in the loan portfolio. — Commercial Real Estate Loans. These loans are underwritten on the income producing potential of the property or the successful operation of the borrowers’ or tenants’ businesses, financial strength of the borrower and any guarantors. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. Management plans to continue focusing its efforts to diversify the loan portfolio to ensure profitable growth opportunities in all major loan categories including one-to-four family residential real estate loans, higher yielding products such as multi-family residential loans and as market conditions permit commercial real estate loans, as well as consumer loans. Many of our commercial and multi-family residential real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. Further, commercial and multi-family residential real estate loans generally have relatively large balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers. Accordingly, if we make any errors in judgment in the collectability of our commercial and multi-family residential real estate loans or the valuation of underlying collateral, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. As a result of the above factors, management may determine it necessary to increase the level of provision for loan losses. Increased provisions for loan losses could negatively affect our results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to its amount of nonconforming loans. A significant portion of our one-to-four family residential loans are nonconforming to secondary market requirements, and are therefore, not saleable to Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. At June 30, 2012, about 25.7% of our one-to-four family residential loan portfolio consisted of loans that were considered nonconforming due to loan size. Included in non-accrual loans at June 30, 2012 were three loans totaling $2.2 million that were nonconforming due to each loan’s principal amount. As of June 30, 2012, we held in portfolio one-to-four family interest-only mortgage loans totaling $23.2 million or 3.0% of gross loans as compared to $33.2 million or 4.7% of gross loans at June 30, 2011. The interest rates on these loans are generally initially fixed for three, five, seven or ten year terms and then adjust in accordance with the terms of the loan to require payment of both principal and interest in order to amortize the loan for the remainder of the term. At June 30, 2012, $22.6 million of these loans convert to fully-amortizing status within the next five years. From February 2004 until February 2007, we originated or purchased interest-only loans ensuring the loans were underwritten at the fully indexed and fully amortized rate. During this period, we also purchased loans made to borrowers who provided limited or no documentation of income, known as stated income loans. A stated income loan is a loan where the borrower’s income source is not subject to verification through the application process, but the reasonableness of the stated income is verified through review of other sources, such as compensation surveys. At June 30, 2012, we had $49.4 48 Table of Contents million in stated income loans, or 6.4% of gross loans, as compared to $62.6 million, or 9.3% of gross loans at June 30, 2011. Included in our stated income loans at June 30, 2012 were $5.4 million in interest-only loans. We have not purchased any interest-only or stated income one- to-four family loans since 2007. Nonconforming one-to-four family residential loans are generally considered to have an increased risk of delinquency and foreclosure than conforming loans and may result in higher levels of provision for loan losses. For example, if the interest rate adjustment results in the borrower being unable to make higher payments of both interest and principal or to refinance the loan, we would be required to initiate collection efforts including foreclosure in order to protect our investment. The percentage of nonconforming loans that are either performing or less than 60 days delinquent at June 30, 2012 was 96.9% as compared to 83.6% at June 30, 2011. There can be no assurance that our nonconforming loan portfolio would not be adversely affected should regional and national economic conditions deteriorate further. In addition, there can be no assurance, that we will recover funds in an amount equal to any remaining loan balance. Consequently, we could sustain loan losses and potentially incur a higher provision for loan losses. High loan-to-value ratios on a portion of our residential mortgage loan portfolio expose us to greater risk of loss. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. If the allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual losses, our results of operations may be negatively affected. In the event that loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms and the collateral security for the payments of these loans is insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance, we may experience significant loan losses. Such credit risk is inherent in the lending business, and failure to adequately assess such credit risk could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Management makes various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of the loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of the loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, management reviews the loan portfolio and historical loss and delinquency experience, as well as overall economic conditions and peer data. If management’s assumptions are incorrect, the allowance for loan losses may be insufficient to cover probable incurred losses in the loan portfolio, resulting in additions to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is also periodically reviewed by our regulators, who may disagree with the allowance and require us to increase such amount. Additions to the allowance for loans losses would be made through increased provisions for loan losses and could negatively affect our results of operations. At June 30, 2012, our allowance for loan losses was $7.5 million, or 0.97% of total loans and 29.5% of non-performing loans as compared to $11.4 million, or 1.6% of total loans and 43.1% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2011. 49 Table of Contents If our non-performing assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At June 30, 2012, our non-performing assets totaled $26.7 million, which was an increase of $17.3 million or 184.7% over non-performing assets at June 30, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must establish an allowance for loan losses that reserves for losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are both probable and reasonably estimable through current period provisions for loan losses. From time to time, we also write down the value of properties in our real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated with the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our real estate owned assets. Further, the resolution of non-performing assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from our overall supervision of operations and other income-producing activities. Finally, if our estimate of the allowance for loan losses is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance for loan losses accordingly. A large portion of our one-to-four family residential loan portfolio is serviced by third parties which limits our ability to foreclose on such loans and foreclosure is further limited by California law. At June 30, 2012, $148.0 million or 39.9% of our one-to-four family residential loans were serviced by third parties. Of this amount, $6.1 million or 4.1% of such portfolio were non-performing. Our policy is to timely pursue our foreclosure rights to maximize our ability to obtain control of the property, however, our ability to implement this policy requires the timely cooperation of our third party servicers. When a loan goes into default, it is the responsibility of the third party servicer to enforce the borrower’s obligation to repay the outstanding indebtedness. In the event the borrower is unable to bring the loan current or a loan modification is not agreed to, the servicer is obligated to foreclose on the property on behalf of Kaiser Federal Bank. Due to a number of factors, including the high rate of loan delinquencies, we believe that our servicers have not vigorously pursued collection efforts on our behalf. We have attempted to exercise our rights under servicing agreements to have the loan servicing returned to us so that we can aggressively resolve the delinquency status of these loans. In May 2012, we successfully obtained the servicing of $54.6 million in loans previously serviced by a third party servicer. In August 2012, we also reached servicing release agreement with another servicer to obtain the servicing rights of $80.5 million in loans. In an effort to expand loan production volume and help compensate for the increased payoffs and refinancings in the current low interest rate environment, we purchased approximately $80.9 million in contractual balance of primarily adjustable rate one-to-four family residential mortgage loans during the year ended June 30, 2012. The servicing rights of all purchased loans were generally retained by the sellers. $48.3 million of the purchased loans were newly originated loans underwritten in accordance with the Bank’s underwriting standards and are serviced by an outside servicer who we have successfully worked with in the past. We believe this servicer will continue to meet our internal servicing standards. However, if these loans do not perform, the Bank will rely on the servicer to foreclose on the properties. If the servicer fails to take the appropriate action, our financial performance could be adversely impacted. The State of California has previously enacted laws that placed severe restrictions on the ability of a lender to foreclose on owner occupied real estate securing one-to-four family residential 50 Table of Contents loans. This added 90 days to the standard timeline for foreclosures of most owner occupied single family mortgages. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclose sales otherwise modifying the foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by the United State Congress or the State of California in the future. Delays in our ability to foreclose on property, whether caused by restrictions under state or federal law or the failure of a third party servicer to timely pursue foreclosure action, can increase our potential loss on such property, due to other factors such as lack of maintenance, unpaid property taxes and adverse changes in market conditions. These delays may adversely affect our ability to limit our credit losses. If property taken into real estate owned is not properly valued or sufficiently reserved to cover actual losses, or if we are required to increase our valuation reserves, our earnings could be reduced. We obtain updated valuations in the form of appraisals when a loan has been foreclosed and the property is transferred to real estate owned, and at certain other times during the asset’s holding period. Our net book value in the loan at the time of foreclosure and thereafter is compared to the lower of adjusted cost basis or updated market value of the foreclosed property less estimated selling costs (fair value). A charge-off is recorded for any excess in the asset’s net book value over its fair value when the loan is transferred to real estate owned. If our valuation determination is inaccurate, the fair value of our investments in real estate may not be sufficient to recover our net book value in such assets, resulting in the need for additional charge-offs. Additional charge-offs to our investments in real estate could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our real estate owned and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by such regulators, may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. We are subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of business. In the current economic environment, our involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of the increase in our non-performing assets. In addition, we may incur additional litigation costs related to our seeking to terminate certain third-party loan servicers. There can be no assurance that our loan workout and other activities will not result in increased litigation expense that may have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We depend on our management team to implement our business strategy and execute successful operations and we could be harmed by the loss of their services. We are dependent upon the services of our senior management team. Our strategy and operations are directed by the senior management team. Any loss of the services of the President and Chief Executive Officer or other members of the management team could impact our ability to implement our business strategy, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our ability to compete in our markets. 51 Table of Contents Strong competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to attract and retain deposits and also may increase our cost of funds. We operate in a very competitive market for the attraction of deposits, the primary source of our funding. Historically, our most direct competition for deposits has come from credit unions, community banks, large commercial banks and thrift institutions within our primary market areas. In recent years competition has also come from institutions that largely deliver their services over the internet. Such competitors have the competitive advantage of lower infrastructure costs. Particularly in times of extremely low or extremely high interest rates, we have faced significant competition for investors’ funds from short-term money market securities and other corporate and government securities. During periods of regularly increasing interest rates, competition for interest bearing deposits increases as customers, particularly certificate of deposit customers, tend to move their accounts between competing businesses to obtain the highest rates in the market. As a result, Kaiser Federal Bank may incur a higher cost of funds in an effort to attract and retain customer deposits. We strive to grow our lower cost deposits, such as non-interest bearing checking accounts, in order to reduce our cost of funds. Strong competition in our primary market area may reduce our ability to originate loans and also decrease our yield on loans. We are located in a competitive market that affects our ability to obtain loans through origination as well as originating them at rates that provide an attractive yield. Competition for loans comes principally from mortgage bankers, commercial banks, other thrift institutions and credit unions. Internet based lenders have also become a greater competitive factor in recent years. Such competition for the origination of loans may limit future growth and earnings prospects. Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition are significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Because our interest-bearing liabilities generally reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates generally would result in a decrease in net interest income. Changes in interest rates may also affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on existing loans and securities. Also, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand and make it more difficult for borrowers to repay adjustable rate loans. Additionally, increases in interest rates may extend the life of fixed-rate assets, which would restrict our ability to reinvest in higher yielding alternatives, and may result in customers withdrawing certificates of deposit early so long as the early withdrawal penalty is less than the additional interest they could receive on an alternative investment. 52 Table of Contents If our investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco becomes impaired, our earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We are required to own common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank’s advance program. Our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank common stock as of June 30, 2012 was $8.5 million. Federal Home Loan Bank common stock is not a marketable security and can only be redeemed by the Federal Home Loan Bank. Federal Home Loan Banks may be subject to accounting rules and asset quality risks that could materially lower their regulatory capital. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Furthermore, in 2011, Standard and Poor’s downgraded the credit rating of ten of the twelve Federal Home Loan Banks, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco. The credit rating for these Federal Home Loan Banks remained the same during 2012. Consequently, there is a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco common stock could be deemed impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the amount of the impairment charge. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged recession, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession in 2008 and 2009, which effects have continued into 2012. National economic data, particularly from the labor market, has shown some signs of improvements. However, the sustainability of the improving market dynamics is disconcerting as a result of the deficit and structural issues in the U.S. economy as well as the continued debt crisis in the European banking markets. Unemployment continues to remain at historically high levels and is not expected to improve significantly in the near future. While the impact on the negative credit cycle of many financial institutions is beginning to stabilize, loan portfolio quality remains deteriorated as compared to the pre-recession level reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy, high unemployment rates, and weak housing market. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline, increasing the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow funds. The FDIC Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that non-performing assets as a percentage of assets for FDIC-insured financial institutions rose to 2.40% as of June 30, 2012, compared to 0.95% as of December 31, 2007. The NASDAQ Bank Index declined 33.0% between December 31, 2007 and June 30, 2012. At June 30, 2012, our non-performing assets as a percentage of total assets was 2.89%. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the related sales price coupled with the weak economic environment and the associated high unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of 53 Table of Contents growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, liquidity, financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater affect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are currently subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. New financial reform legislation, entitled the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has been enacted by Congress and took effect on July 21, 2011 changing the bank regulatory framework, creating an independent consumer protection bureau that assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and will establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Any further changes in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. Financial reform legislation which took effect on July 21, 2011 has, among other things, eliminated the OTS, will tighten capital standards, created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The Dodd-Frank Act has significantly changed the former bank regulatory structure and affected the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated our former primary federal regulator, the OTS, and required Kaiser Federal Bank to be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks) as of July 21, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act also authorized the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies like the Company, in addition to bank holding companies which it previously regulated. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries. The components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the proceeds of trust preferred securities are excluded from Tier 1 capital unless such securities were issued prior to May 19, 2010 by bank or savings and loan holding companies with less than $15 billion of assets. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect when the law was enacted, and directs the 54 Table of Contents federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. As a result, consolidated regulatory requirements will apply to savings and loan holding companies subject to a five year phase in period from the 2010 passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Kaiser Federal Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined by their applicable bank regulators, in the Bank’s case, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The new legislation also weakened the federal preemption available for national banks and federal savings associations, and gave state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable consumer protection laws. The legislation also broadened the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on an institution’s average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2009, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act increased stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments. The legislation also directed the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act provided for originators of certain securitized loans to retain a percentage of the risk for transferred loans, directed the Federal Reserve Board to regulate pricing of certain debit card interchange fees and contained a number of reforms related to mortgage origination. It is difficult to predict at this time what effect the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, may curtail our revenue opportunities and increase our operating and compliance costs, and could require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital and/or liquidity or otherwise adversely affect our business or financial results in the future. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the financial crisis over the past few years, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the FDIC has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. The Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, 55 Table of Contents which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount delinquent borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay on their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, affecting lending and funding practices and liquidity standards. Moreover, bank regulatory agencies have been active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, and have issued many formal enforcement orders requiring capital ratios in excess of regulatory requirements. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws and regulations may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws and regulations may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, the fees we can charge, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Legislative proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. System failure or breaches of our network security could subject us to increased operating costs as well as litigation and other liabilities. The computer systems and network infrastructure we use could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our computer equipment against damage from physical theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event, as well as from security breaches, denial of service attacks, viruses, worms and other disruptive problems caused by hackers. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Computer break-ins, phishing and other disruptions could also jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability to us and may cause existing and potential customers to refrain from doing business with us. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent such damage, there can be no assurance that these security measures will be successful. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we and our third-party service providers use to encrypt and protect customer transaction data. A failure of such security measures could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards could materially affect how we report our financial condition and operating results. Our accounting policies are essential to understanding our financial results and condition. Some of these policies require the use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the value of our assets or liabilities and financial results. Some of our accounting policies are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective, and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain and because it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. If such estimates or assumptions underlying our financial statements are incorrect, we may experience material losses. 56 Table of Contents From time to time, the Financial Accounting Standards Board and the Securities Exchange Commission change the financial accounting and reporting standards or the interpretation of those standards that govern the preparation of our external financial statements. These changes are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our results of operations and financial condition. We could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in our restating prior period financial statements in material amounts. The need to account for certain assets and liabilities at estimated fair value may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, including securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Our name change and rebranding which involves substantial cost may not be received favorably by our customers or our stockholders which could adversely affect Kaiser Federal Bank. In order to better execute our business strategy, the Company recently completed an extensive market and brand evaluation analysis, which will result in a new name for the Bank. This new name is part of our broader business strategy to operate as a community bank serving the financial needs of all customers within our communities. We believe the new name will help to eliminate any potential customer confusion that we are affiliated with Kaiser Permanente. It is anticipated that our new name will be announced in early October 2012. We may not be able to establish, maintain or enhance brand recognition that is comparable to our current Kaiser Federal Bank brand which could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers. In addition, we expect to incur greater marketing costs associated with developing our new brand which may be in excess of our historical marketing expenditures. We cannot predict the impact of this change on our business. If we fail to build strong name brand recognition, our profitability may decline and our business prospects may suffer. 57 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 