D. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have a limited operating history in making, developing and selling LCD products, and we have recently commenced a new distribution strategy, which may not provide an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Honesty Group was formed in 2005 and commenced its business in the fourth quarter of 2006 and has expanded its operations substantially in recent years principally through Guanke, Honesty Group’s primary Chinese operating subsidiary. In 2009, Guanke started distributing its LCD products principally through its “SGOCO Image” network of retail distributors. If this strategic move cannot be successfully implemented, our future growth will be significantly affected. In addition, the historical results of Honesty Group may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business, financial performance, and prospects due, in part, to the strategic marketing and distribution change. Competition in our industry is intense and, if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our financial results will be negatively affected. The LCD products industry in China is highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We face competition from distributors and LCD manufacturers that use their extensive brand-name value, manufacturing and marketing size, and in-house sales forces and exclusive sales agents to distribute their products. We compete for customers on the basis of, among other things, our product offerings, customer service and reputation. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, research and development, and design, marketing, distribution, management or other resources. Our results of operations could be affected by a number of competitive factors, including entry by new competitors into our current markets, expansion by existing competitors, better marketing and advertising leading to stronger brand equity for our competitors, and competition with other companies for the production capacity of contract manufacturers. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by these competitive pressures. There can be no assurance that our strategies will remain competitive or that we will continue to be successful in the future. Increased competition could result in a loss of market share. In particular, if our competitors adopt aggressive pricing policies, we may be forced to adjust the pricing of our products to level their competitiveness. This could adversely affect our profitability and financial results. 4 If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to rapid technological changes in the LCD products industry, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. The rate of technological change in the consumer electronics industry generally, and in the LCD products industry specifically, is rapid, with frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. For example, LED (light-emitting diode) displays were only recently commercially marketable, but Samsung reported selling 2.6 million devices in 2009. LED back-lit devices purport to be thinner, more power-efficient and produce better images than LCD products. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to continue to anticipate technological changes and to offer additional product and service opportunities that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. There is a risk that we may not successfully identify new product and service opportunities or develop and introduce these opportunities in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, product and service opportunities that our competitors develop or introduce may render our products and services noncompetitive. As a result, we cannot assure you that technological changes that may affect our industry in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Honesty Group has an unfulfilled registered capital obligation for its Guanwei subsidiary. One of Honesty Group’s subsidiaries, Guanwei, was formed on June 22, 2007, with registered capital of $11,880,000. Under PRC law, the registered capital of a company is regarded as corporate property, and it is the shareholder’s obligation to fulfill its subscribed capital contribution according to the provisions of PRC law and the PRC company’s charter documents. The charter document for each PRC company, which consists of the company’s articles of association, is the agreement that sets forth the amount of registered capital required to be paid. Honesty Group has the obligation to fulfill the registered capital obligations of Guanwei. As of December 31, 2010, $3,130,000 had been invested by Honesty Group in Guanwei. According to an agreement reached with the local government agency, the Jinjiang Bureau of China’s State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, the remaining registered capital of $8,750,000 must be contributed by the end of 2011. The SAIC provided Honesty Group with additional time to make the registered capital payments because Honesty Group is in the process of investing in infrastructure in the region through its investment in the Guanke Technology Park. If Honesty Group is unable to make the registered capital payments during 2011, it believes it will be able to reach agreement with the SAIC to further defer its obligation to pay the remaining registered capital for an additional 12 months, provided that the SAIC believes Honesty Group is progressing with the timetable for making its infrastructure investments in the Guanke Technology Park. Honesty Group does not have a specific timetable for paying the obligations, and does not presently know when it will pay the obligation. If it fails to reach such an agreement for deferral, Honesty Group would have an obligation to fund the Guanwei subsidiary or to apply for a reduction in the remaining registered capital, which may not be granted. If Honesty Group fails to contribute the registered capital, it may be penalized with fines of 5 – 15% over the amount of unpaid capital, and, in certain cases, the business license for Guanwei may be revoked, which would result in the inability of Guanwei to conduct business in China. If Honesty Group is required to fund the remaining registered capital, Honesty Group will need to raise external financing, and there is no assurance that sufficient external financing could be raised to fund the registered capital amount. Honesty Group has not informed the SAIC of the change in its ownership due to the Acquisition because such disclosure is not required by applicable law. SGOCO does not believe that the change in ownership will impact any future deferrals or reduction applications it may receive from the SAIC with respect to Honesty Group’s registered capital commitments. Furthermore, if the business license of Guanwei was revoked due to Honesty Group’s failure to pay the required registered capital, the individuals that serve as the legal representatives of Guanwei would not be subject to penalties for such failures. We have generated a significant percentage of our revenues from related parties. In the past, we have generated a significant percentage of our revenues from related parties. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, related parties represented 5.8%, 9.1% and 22.2% of our revenues, respectively. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to continue to generate revenues from related parties in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues from related parties in the future, or if we are unable to replace any lost revenues from related parties in the future, our operating results may be adversely affected. 5 We sell most of our products through a few customers with which we do not have long-term agreements, and, accordingly, we may have risks from our level of customer concentration. We derive a significant portion of our sales from several large distributors. For 2010, 2009 and 2008, sales to our top customers which represented at least 10% of our revenue accounted for 35%, 74% and 91%, respectively, of our total revenue. The identity of our large customers has generally changed from period to period, such that only one of the customers that represented greater than 10% of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2010, represented greater than 10% of our revenue during the year ended December 31, 2009. The table below shows the changing nature of our customers that represented at least 10% of SGOCO’s revenues during the relevant period: For the year ended December 31, 2010 For the year ended December 31, 2009 For the year ended December 31, 2008 Customer A 19% - - Customer B 16% 10% - Customer C - 27% 27% Customer D - 21% - Customer E - 16% - Customer F* - - 22% Customer G - - 17% Customer H - - 14% Customer I - - 11% * This customer is a related party and is separately disclosed on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Other Comprehensive Income in the consolidated financial statements. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our customers that represented greater than 10% of our revenue during the period consisted of two distributors (Customers A and B above). Customers A and B are Chinese companies. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers. Our accounts receivable aging period typically ranges from 30 to 70 days. Our financial position and profitability is dependent on the creditworthiness of our customers. Thus, we are exposed to the credit risks of our customers, and this risk increases the larger the orders are. The table below shows the number of customers that represented at least 10% of SGOCO’s accounts receivable as of relevant period: As of December 31, 2010 As of December 31, 2009 Customer A 24% 40% Customer B 21% - Customer C 14% - Customer D - 18% Customer E - 16% Although there has not been any material collection problem for trade receivables or bad debts in the last two fiscal years, there is no assurance that we will not encounter doubtful or bad debts in the future. If we were to experience any unexpected delay or difficulty in collections from our customers, our cash flows and financial results may be adversely affected. 6 We may experience pressure from panel manufacturers to make greater prepayments for our inventory. We pay advances to vendors for inventory purchases, including related parties, which amounted to $23.3 million and $20.9 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The amount of the advance is negotiated with the vendor. These advance payments require a substantial commitment of our working capital. In the future, suppliers may demand higher levels of advances for future purchases as demand grows for LCD panels. The table below shows the number of suppliers that represented at least 10% of advances to suppliers, including related parties, as of the relevant period: As of December 31, 2010 As of December 31, 2009 Supplier A 28% - Supplier B 13% 15% Supplier C 13% - Supplier D 12% - Supplier E* - 43% Supplier F - 25% * This supplier is a related party and is separately disclosed in the Related Party Transactions footnote in the consolidated financial statements. Our successful operation relies upon an adequate supply of LCD panels, at acceptable prices and quantity, in a timely manner. We have limited production capability to manufacture LCD panels, and our operations are significantly dependent on the sufficient supply of LCD panels obtained at reasonable prices. We currently source LCD panels from multiple distributors. We are exposed to the market risk of availability and price fluctuations for LCD panels. The price and availability of LCD panels may vary significantly from year to year due to factors such as global demand from end users, China’s import restrictions, producer capacity, market conditions and costs of raw materials. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers or guarantees of supply or price. If the prices of LCD panels rise too high or the supply of LCD panels becomes scarce, our profit margins may decline and we may be unable to fulfill order contracts placed prior to production. We are currently in negotiation directly with additional LCD panel suppliers as a strategy to diversify supply risks and reduce material costs. We face increasing labor costs and other costs of production in the PRC, which could reduce our profitability. Labor costs in China have been increasing in recent years and labor costs in the PRC could continue to increase in the future. If labor costs in the PRC continue to increase, production costs will likely increase. This may in turn affect the selling prices of our products, which may then affect the demand of such products and thereby adversely affect our sales, financial condition and results of operations. We are actively reviewing manufacturing processes to continue to simplify our production processes and to continue to control and build more of our components internally. 7 We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate management, sales and marketing personnel, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may limit our development. Our success is dependent to a large extent on our ability to retain the services of our executive management personnel, who have contributed to our growth and expansion and also to recruit talented executives to lead new initiatives. The industry experience, entrepreneurial skills and contributions of our executive directors and other members of our senior management are essential to our continuing success. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our senior management. In particular, Mr. Burnette Or, Chairman of the Board and President, has over 10 years’ experience in the consumer electronics industry and is responsible for the overall corporate strategy, planning and business development of Honesty Group. His experience and leadership is critical to our operations and financial performance. If we lose the services of Mr. Or, or any of our key executive personnel, and cannot replace them in a timely manner, such loss may reduce our competitiveness, and may adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and future prospects. In addition, our retail expansion plan and SGOCO Image model are dependent upon our ability to identify and recruit an adequate sales force in China. Given the current rate of economic growth in China, competition for qualified personnel will be substantial. We do not currently have a full-time chief financial officer with experience as a chief financial officer of a United States publicly traded company. Mr. Lv Zhongsheng is currently SGOCO’s Treasurer, chief accountant and acting chief financial officer. We are seeking a chief financial officer with substantial experience in U.S. GAAP and public company reporting requirements and the ability to speak Mandarin Chinese fluently. The pool of candidates meeting our criteria is small. We have entered into discussions with a small number of candidates to assume the chief financial officer position, but have not finalized an agreement with a candidate and can provide no assurance that we will do so in a timely manner. The delay in obtaining the services of qualified chief financial officer may hinder our ability to timely comply with our reporting requirements as a U.S. public company. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively and our growth may slow down in the future. We have been expanding our business rapidly and expect to continue to do so either through organic growth or through acquisitions and investments in related businesses as we deem appropriate. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We will need to manage our growth effectively, which may entail devising and implementing business plans, training and managing a growing workforce, managing costs and implementing adequate control and reporting systems in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our personnel, procedures and controls will be managed effectively to support future growth adequately. Failure to manage expansion effectively may affect our success in executing our business plan and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. In addition, our growth in percentage terms may slow in the future. Accordingly, you should not rely on our historic growth rate as an indicator for our future growth. Guanke Technology Park is subject to a purchase option that may limit our ability to fully realize on our plans to develop Guanke Technology Park for our benefit. As a condition to the execution of the share exchange agreement we entered into as part of the Acquisition, Honesty Group entered into a purchase option in favor of SGOCO’s President, Mr. Burnette Or, which allows Mr. Or, or a company designated by him, to purchase the Guanke Technology Park for cost at any time prior to March 18, 2012, and also allows Honesty Group to put the property to Mr. Or if he fails to exercise his option by such date. Mr. Or’s exercise of the purchase option is conditioned on Mr. Or, or the designated company, agreeing with Guanke for a long-term lease of the property at the prevailing market price. Our ability to fully develop the Guanke Technology Park and benefit from that development may be limited if this option is exercised by Mr. Or. We rely on short-term credit facilities and loans to fund our operations, and the failure to renew these facilities on a regular basis may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We fund much of our operations from short term credit facilities and loans with various PRC banks. As of December 31, 2010, our notes and letters of credit totaled approximately $26.3 million and our short term bank loans totaled $18.2 million. We have written credit facilities with four banks pursuant to which we issued a portion of the amounts discussed above. We have a facility with the Bank of Communications that expires in August 2011. We have several facilities with the Agricultural Bank of China that expire in September 2011. We have a facility with the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China that was renewed in September 2010 for a one-year period. We have a facility with the Industrial Bank Co., Ltd. that expires in November 2011, and consist of short-term loans. 8 All of our borrowings mature at various dates within one year. We have been making these types of arrangements since our inception, and, in the past, we have been able to renew these facilities and repay the loans and borrow again from the same banks. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to renew these facilities in the future. If we are unable to renew these facilities in the future, we will need to raise financing from alternative sources for which we have no commitments. The Guanke Technology Park and our equipment located at the Guanke Technology Park are subject to mortgages with our lenders. We have a credit facility with the Agricultural Bank of China in the total amount of $10.3 million (RMB 68.0 million). In connection with this facility for $9.7 million (RMB 64.0 million), which expires December 2012, the Agricultural Bank of China has a mortgage on our land use rights for the Guanke Technology Park. This mortgage secures all credit extensions under this facility. We have one credit facility with the Bank of Communications in the amount of $16.4 million (RMB 108.3 million). In connection with the credit facility for $7.6 million (RMB 50 million), which expires August 19, 2012, the Bank of Communications has a mortgage on our land use rights for the Guanke Technology Park. This mortgage secures all credit extensions under this facility from August 19, 2010 until August 19, 2012. We have one credit facility with Industrial Bank Co. Ltd. in the aggregate amount of $8.3 million (RMB 55 million). In connection with the credit facility for $5.2 million (RMB 34 million), which expires November 7, 2011, the Industrial Bank Co. Ltd. has a mortgage on our land use rights for the Guanke Technology Park. This mortgage secures all credit extensions under this facility from November 8, 2010 until November 7, 2011. Although in the past, we have been able to renew these facilities, there is no assurance that we will be able to renew these facilities in the future. In the event that we are not able to renew the facilities upon the expiration of their terms, or we cannot pay off the amounts borrowed under the facilities, both our land use rights for the Guanke Technology Park and the machinery equipment located at the Guanke Technology Park would be subject to foreclosure. We currently enjoy certain preferential tax treatment in China, which may not continue in future periods. Pursuant to the PRC Income Tax Laws, prior to January 1, 2008, Chinese companies were subject to Enterprise Income Taxes, or EIT, at a statutory rate of 33%. Beginning January 1, 2008, the new EIT law replaced the existing laws for Domestic Enterprises and Foreign Invested Enterprises, or FIEs. The new standard EIT rate of 25% replaced the 33% rate, except for “High Tech” companies, which pay a reduced rate of 15%. Companies established before March 16, 2007 were able to continue to enjoy tax holiday treatment approved by the local government for a grace period of the five years or until the tax holiday term is completed, whichever is sooner. Guanke was established before March 16, 2007 and therefore is qualified to continue enjoying the reduced tax rate as described above. Guanke was granted an income tax exemption for two years commencing from January 1, 2007, and is subject to 50% of the 25% EIT tax rate, or 12.5%, from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. Guanke is currently applying for the High Technology company status. If qualification as a High Technology company is achieved, Guanke will be entitled to preferential tax treatment and enjoy the benefit of a reduced income tax rate at 15% starting 2012. Guanwei is in the development stage. Guancheng began its operations in June 2010. Guanwei and Guancheng had no taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Guancheng had net income for 2010 and is subject to 25% EIT tax rate. Jinjiang Guanke started operations in October 2010 had net loss for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Accordingly, no provision was made in the year. Future changes in Chinese tax law could change existing or future tax benefits or rates. Such changes could adversely affect our results. As all of our operations are in China, we may face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks in China, which could adversely affect our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or another epidemic. From time to time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. 9 Our operations may be disrupted and our business, financial condition and/or results of operations may be adversely affected by a failure in our facilities or our suppliers’ facilities for reasons beyond our control. Our manufacturing operations, or that of our LCD panel suppliers, could be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. The causes of disruptions may include extreme weather conditions, landslides, earthquakes, fires, natural catastrophes, raw material supply disruptions, equipment and system failures, labor force shortages, energy shortages, workforce actions or environmental issues. Any significant disruption to our or our major suppliers’ operations could adversely affect our ability to make and sell products. In addition, the occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of any of our manufacturing facilities and on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in existing laws and regulations or additional or stricter laws and regulations on environmental protection in the PRC may cause us to incur additional capital expenditures. Our production facility is located in Jinjiang City, Fujian province and is subject to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require enterprises engaged in manufacturing that may generate industrial waste to adopt effective measures to control and properly dispose of such waste. The relevant administrative department for environmental protection can levy fines for any violations of such environmental laws or regulations. For material violations, the PRC government may suspend or close any or all of our operations. Upon completion of construction of our facilities, an environmental report was prepared and approved by the Jinjiang Municipal Environment Protection Bureau, but there is no assurance that the local municipal or central PRC government will not change the existing laws or regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulation. Compliance with any of these additional or stricter laws or regulations may cause us to incur additional capital expenditures, which we may be unable to pass on to our customers through higher prices for our products. Our current insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the risks related to our operations. Our operations are subject to hazards and risks normally associated with manufacturing operations, which may cause damage to persons or property. Currently, we maintain insurance policies for damage to real property and for employer liability for personal injury of employees. We are not required under PRC law to maintain, and we do not maintain, any product liability insurance. If we were found liable for any product liability claim, we may be required to pay substantial damages. Even if we were successful in defending such a claim, we may incur substantial financial and other resources in defending such a claim. Under such circumstances, our financial results will be adversely affected. Depending on the outcome of any such claim, the reputation of our brands may also be adversely affected. Further, we do not maintain business interruption insurance or third party liability insurance against claims for property damage, personal injury and environmental liabilities. The occurrence of any of these events may result in interruption of our operations and subject us to significant losses or liabilities. Any losses or liabilities that are not covered by our current insurance policies may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management and internal control systems improvements may not be adequate or effective, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have established risk management and internal control systems consisting of establishing an organizational framework, and implementing policies, procedures and risk management methods that we believe are appropriate for our business operations, and we seek to continue to improve such risk management and internal control systems from time to time. However, as a small company with few non-production/sales employees and due to the inherent limitations in the design and implementation of risk management and internal control systems, there can be no assurance that our risk management and internal control systems will be sufficiently effective in identifying and preventing all such risks. In addition, as some of our risk management and internal control policies and procedures are relatively new, we may need to establish and implement additional risk management and internal control policies and procedures to further improve our systems from time to time. Since our risk management and internal control systems also depend on their implementation by our employees, there can be no assurance that such implementation will not involve any human errors or mistakes. If we fail to timely adopt and implement risk management and internal control policies and procedures, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 10 Our market is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences and we may not be able to predict or meet consumer preferences or demand accurately. We derive a significant amount of revenue from the LCD products that are subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences. Our sales and profits are sensitive to these changing preferences and our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that we cannot predict with certainty. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Guanke, our principal operating subsidiary, failed to pay social insurance premiums with respect to approximately two-thirds of its employees and it may be liable for past due social insurance premiums and penalties. We have been advised that under PRC law Guanke should have paid social insurance premiums for its employees covering endowment insurance, unemployment insurance, and medical insurance with respect to its employees. Guanke may be required to pay the administrative authority of labor and social security the unpaid premiums plus a surcharge of 2% of the overdue premiums. There may also be a fine levied against the employee of Guanke who was responsible for the filings. We plan to make necessary payments and do not consider the liability material. We may not be able to secure financing needed for future operating needs on favorable terms, or on any terms at all. From time to time, we may seek additional financing to provide the capital required to maintain our business if cash flow from operations is insufficient to do so. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are able to incur debt, we may be subject to certain restrictions imposed by the terms of the debt and the repayment of such debt may limit our cash flow and our ability to grow. If we are unable to incur debt, we may be forced to issue additional equity, which could have a dilutive effect on our current shareholders. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and warrants. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares, the U.S. holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to our status as a PFIC for our 2010 taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. holders of our ordinary shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. Honesty Group did not operate as a public company prior to the Acquisition. Fulfilling our obligations incident to reporting as a “foreign private issuer” will be expensive and time consuming. Hambrecht Asia Acquisition Corporation was not an operating company prior to the Acquisition of Honesty Group, which was a private company. Since the Acquisition, we have maintained a relatively small finance, accounting and internal auditing staff and, prior to the Acquisition, we were not required to maintain and establish disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over our financial reporting as required for a public company trading in the United States. Under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, we have begun to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations requires significant management time, places significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and increases our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. We have engaged consultants and added additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. 11 Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC requirements that provide shareholders the protection of information that must be made available to shareholders of United States public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: · the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; · provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Expansion of our business may put added pressure on our management, which may impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business plan is to significantly grow our operations. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: · the continued acceptance of our LCD and LED products by consumers; · our ability to successfully and rapidly expand our “SGOCO Image” locations to reach potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; · the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; · the competition from larger, better capitalized and well-known competitors and the effect of rapid technological change; · the highly competitive nature of our industry; and · the continued availability and favorable pricing of the raw materials and components used in our products. If we are successful growing our SGOCO Image participants, we may be required to provide a large amount of financial support to potential members and deliver LCD products to customers on a timely basis at a reasonable cost to those customers. Such demands would require more capital than we currently have available and we may be unable to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and results of operations. 12 Under the EIT Law, SGOCO may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in adverse tax consequences to SGOCO and its non-PRC resident shareholders. Under the new EIT Law and the Implementing Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered as a resident enterprise and will be subject to PRC income tax on its global income. According to the Implementing Rules, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” Accordingly, our holding company, SGOCO Group, Ltd., may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to PRC income tax on our global income. The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those invested in by individuals or foreign enterprises like SGOCO, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or controlled by or invested in by individuals or foreign enterprises. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, such PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Since the EIT Law became effective in 2008, SGOCO has not been treated as a “resident enterprise.” If the PRC tax authorities determine that SGOCO is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, SGOCO may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on SGOCO’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if both SGOCO and Honesty Group are treated as PRC “resident enterprises,” all dividends from the PRC operating subsidiaries to Honesty Group and from Honesty Group to SGOCO would be exempt from PRC tax. If SGOCO were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that SGOCO receives from its PRC operating subsidiaries (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) (1) may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, if the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (the “PRC-Hong Kong Tax Treaty”) were applicable, or (2) if such treaty does not apply (i.e., because the PRC tax authorities may deem Honesty Group to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits), may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, SGOCO could pay to its shareholders. Finally, the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends SGOCO pays to its non-PRC shareholders that are not PRC tax “resident enterprises” and gains derived by them from transferring SGOCO’s ordinary shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. In such event, SGOCO may be required to withhold the 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to its non-PRC resident shareholders. SGOCO’s non-PRC resident shareholders also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of ordinary shares in certain circumstances. SGOCO would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain. If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC resident shareholder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such shareholder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. Intercompany loans from SGOCO to its operating subsidiary must be made in compliance with PRC law. Any loans we make to our Chinese subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under Chinese law, cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable Chinese law, the Chinese regulators must approve the amount of a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital, which represents shareholders’ equity investments over a defined period of time, and the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which represents the total of the company’s registered capital plus permitted loans. The registered capital/total investment ratio cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement and the excess of the total investment over the registered capital represents the maximum amount of borrowings that a foreign invested enterprise is permitted to have under Chinese law. If we were to advance funds to our Chinese subsidiaries in the form of loans and such funds exceed the maximum amount of borrowings of the subsidiary, we would have to apply to the relevant government authorities for an increase in their permitted total investment amounts. The various applications could be time consuming and their outcomes would be uncertain. Concurrently with the loans, we might have to make capital contributions to the subsidiary in order to maintain the statutory minimum registered capital/total investment ratio, and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own, as discussed below. Furthermore, even if we make loans to our Chinese subsidiaries that do not exceed their current maximum amount of borrowings, we will have to register each loan with SAFE or its local counterpart within 15 days after the signing of the relevant loan agreement. Subject to the conditions stipulated by SAFE, SAFE or its local counterpart will issue a registration certificate of foreign debts within 20 days after reviewing and accepting its application. In practice, it may take longer to complete such SAFE registration process. 13 We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our Chinese subsidiaries or affiliated entities or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our Chinese subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use such future loans or capital contributions to capitalize or otherwise fund our Chinese operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Our business operations will continue to be conducted in China, and a substantial portion of our sales will continue to be made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a positive or negative effect on us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, the Chinese government still owns a substantial portion of the productive assets in China. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products. 14 Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on U.S. judgments against us or our subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors and shareholders. Substantially all of our assets are located outside of the U.S. and most of our directors and executive officers reside outside of the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the U.S. to effect service of process within the U.S. or elsewhere outside China on us, our subsidiaries, officers, directors and shareholders, and others, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal or state securities laws. China does not have treaties providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the U.S. and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of these judgments in relation to any matter, including U.S. securities laws and the laws of the Cayman Islands, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in China against our assets or our subsidiaries, officers, directors, shareholders and advisors only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by Chinese law and the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under Chinese law and the actions satisfy certain prerequisite conditions prescribed by Chinese law. In connection with such an original action, a Chinese court may award civil liabilities, including monetary damages. Notwithstanding the ability to bring original actions, we believe it is unlikely that the courts in China would entertain original actions brought in China against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state or territory within the United States. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also affect our operating costs. Compliance with these requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise adversely affect our future growth. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Changes in Chinese tax laws could adversely affect our results. Our Chinese subsidiaries are governed by the Income Tax Law of the PRC concerning Foreign Investment Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises and various local income tax laws. Beginning January 1, 2008, the new EIT law replaced the previous laws for Domestic Enterprises and FIEs. The new standard EIT rate of 25% has replaced the 33% rate previously applicable to both Domestic Enterprises and FIEs. Companies established before March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy tax holiday treatment approved by local government for a grace period of the next 5 years or until the tax holiday term is completed, whichever is sooner. Guanke was established before March 16, 2007 and therefore is qualified to continue enjoying the reduced tax rate as described above. Guanke was granted an income tax exemption for two years commencing from January 1, 2007, and is subject to 50% of the 25% EIT tax rate, or 12.5% from January 1, 2009, through December 31, 2011. Guancheng was established before March 16, 2007 and is subject to 25% EIT tax rate on its taxable income. Guancheng started operations in June 2010 and had net income for the year ended December 31, 2010. Accordingly, no provision was made in the periods. Guancheng was under development stage and had no taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Guanwei is under development stage and had no taxable income for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Future changes in Chinese tax law could change existing or future tax benefits or rates. Such changes could adversely affect our results. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential authority in China. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries, which are established in China. As a result, we will be subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. However, since the Chinese legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we or our subsidiaries enjoy either by law or contract. Since Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we would enjoy in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce contracts or other rights. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the U.S. or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of these laws, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our shareholders. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. 15 The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we will conduct our business activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation, state ownership or otherwise. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws, regulations and policies of the Chinese government. We believe that our operations in China will be in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support economic and other reforms or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic and other policies, could have a significant effect on economic and social conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could have an adverse effect on the manner in which we conduct our business. The Chinese central government has a policy of aggressively subsidizing both consumption of domestic manufactured electronics and infrastructure building in smaller cities. A plan that went into effect nationwide in February 2009 targets rural area consumers through a rural subsidy scheme. The Chinese government program encourages consumer spending on technology in rural areas by offering a 13% subsidy of the purchase price of designated home appliances (up to a capped price), which subsidy is split 80% / 20% between the central and local government. The PRC Ministry of Finance announced in March 2009 that the 2009 budget from the central government for this subsidy plan was RMB 20 billion, which would help increase household appliance sales by more than RMB 100 billion. Changes in their policies to reduce subsidies or promote competing technologies could negatively impact our operations. If China imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in China could be curtailed which could adversely affect our business and results of operation. While the economy of China has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation, the Chinese government may impose controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in our LCD products leading to a decline in our profitability. We may have difficulty establishing and maintaining adequate management, legal, and financial controls in the PRC. Prior to the Acquisition, our Chinese subsidiaries were operated as privately-held companies. As a result, we may experience difficulty in establishing and maintaining management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet the required U.S. regulatory and financial reporting standards. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in China may affect our operating subsidiary’s ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. RMB is not a freely convertible currency currently, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. In China, SAFE regulates the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in China have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts (e.g., remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.). However, conversion of RMB for capital account items, such as direct investment, loan, security investment and repatriation of investment, is still subject to the approval of the SAFE. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Honesty Group’s Chinese primary operating subsidiary, Guanke, is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. 16 Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi (RMB) may reduce our profitability. The change in value of the RMB against U.S. dollars, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the RMB to U.S. dollars. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in significant fluctuation of the RMB against U.S. dollars. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against U.S. dollars would reduce the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of U.S. dollars against the RMB would reduce the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Exchange controls that exist in China may limit our ability to use our cash flows effectively. Most of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends, if any, in respect of our shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of current account transactions, including payment of dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use cash flows for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of China. Foreign exchange transactions continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or registration with the Chinese governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if Honesty Group borrows foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance Honesty Group by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of Honesty Group to obtain additional foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Chinese government ownership of all real property may limit our ability to fully develop our licensed real estate. Chinese laws prohibiting the private ownership of land and limiting “land use rights” may hamper our ability to maximize our subsidiaries’ property. All land in the PRC is owned by the Chinese government. Guanke, Guancheng, and Guanwei have “land use rights” to use the land on which our Guanke Technology Park is located for 50 years, beginning June 29, 2007. The Chinese government must not recall the land use right during the term of the land use agreement, unless it is for legitimate public interests with due process and compensation, including but not limited to compensation for the facilities on the land and the foreseeable losses to the holder in the remaining years. Once the land use right fee has been fully paid up, the holder is entitled to dispose of the land use right at its discretion, such as transferring, leasing, and mortgaging the land to others. One year before the expiration of the term, if the holder intends to extend the term, unless the land is required for then current public interests, the government is obliged to renew the land use right agreement upon re-negotiated terms and land use right fees. Risks Relating to Our Shares The former Honesty Group shareholders currently own approximately 83% of our ordinary shares, and this voting control may limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. The former shareholders of Honesty Group currently own approximately 83% of our voting shares. These shareholders can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which could prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. 17 We do not expect to pay dividends, so our shareholders will only benefit from an investment in our shares if such shares appreciate in value. We do not expect to pay dividends to our shareholders in the foreseeable future. The board of directors may determine to pay dividends in the future, depending upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including restrictions in credit agreements, imposed by applicable law, including the laws of China governing dividend payments, currency conversion and loans, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realization of a gain on shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our shares. There is no guarantee that our shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders purchased their shares. Shares to be potentially issued may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. As of April 15, 2011, we had 17,258,356 shares and 1,566,027 warrants outstanding. We issued an option to purchase up to a total of 280,000 units at $10 per unit to the underwriters in our IPO, which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of 280,000 shares and 280,000 warrants. We also issued an option to purchase up to 66,667 shares at $6.00 per share to the underwriters in our December 2010 offering. In addition, assuming certain net income targets are met for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2011, 800,000 shares currently outstanding but held in escrow pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement may be released to the former shareholders of Honesty Group and certain founders. In November 2010, our shareholders approved the adoption of a stock incentive plan that provides for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock or other awards up to 7% of the fully diluted outstanding shares to the employees, directors and consultants of SGOCO and its subsidiaries. In addition, we have authorized capital stock under our charter of 50,000,000 ordinary shares and 1,000,000 preferred shares. Subject to any restrictions of a stock exchange on which our shares may be listed in the future, these shares may be issued without shareholder approval. The sale or even the possibility of sale of the foregoing shares could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. Upon the issuance of the additional shares, you may experience dilution to your holdings. Due to the lack of unrestricted ordinary shares available to be sold, there is severely limited liquidity for our ordinary shares. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 17.4 million shares outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 2.2 million shares are held by persons not affiliated with us and are freely eligible to be resold in the public market. The remaining shares are either being held in escrow or are “restricted” securities not eligible to be resold in the public market. As a result of the lack of unrestricted securities available to be resold in the public market, there is limited liquidity in our ordinary shares, which may limit your ability to sell our ordinary shares or reduce the price at which the shares may be sold. In addition, the lack of a liquid market in our shares may make the listed market price of our shares less meaningful. 18 