Item 1A. Risk Factors Introduction Current and potential investors in the Company should be aware that, as with any publicly traded company, investing in our securities carries risk. Managing risk effectively is critical to our success, and our organization is built around intelligent risk assumptions and prudent risk management. We have identified what we believe reflect key significant risks to the organization, and in turn to our shareholders, which are outlined below. Any of the risks described below could result in a significant or material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. In addition to these enumerated risks, we face numerous other strategic, operational and emerging risks that could in the aggregate 30Table of Contentslead to shortfalls to our long-term goals or add to short-term volatility in our earnings. The following review of important risk factors should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with other cautionary statements that are included herein or elsewhere. The words or phrases believe, anticipate, estimate, project, plan, expect, intend, hope, forecast, evaluate, will likely result or will continue or words or phrases of similar import generally involve forward-looking statements. As used in these Risk Factors, the terms “we”, “our” or “us” may, depending upon the context, refer to the Company, to one or more of the Company’s consolidated subsidiaries or to all of them taken as a whole. Business There is limited historical information available for investors to evaluate our performance. We began underwriting reinsurance transactions in July 2007. As a result, there is limited historical information available to help investors evaluate our performance. In addition, in light of our limited operating history and a series of significant transactions, including the GMAC Acquisition in November 2008, entering into the ACAC Quota Share, IIS Acquisition in 2010 and the Senior Note Offering in 2011, our historical financial statements are not necessarily meaningful for evaluating the potential of our future operations. Because our underwriting and investment strategies differ from other participants in the property and casualty reinsurance markets, you may not be able to compare our business’s performance or prospects to other property and casualty reinsurers. We may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We expect our business to grow in the future as we continue our relationships with existing customers while seeking opportunities to reinsure other insurance companies operating in similar niches. We do not have specific targets or time frames for growth. Expansion of our business in the U.S. and internationally could require additional capital, systems development and skilled personnel. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, identify and hire qualified employees or incorporate effectively the components of any businesses we may acquire. The failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Ongoing economic uncertainty could materially and adversely affect our business, our liquidity and financial condition. Global economies and financial markets have experienced significant weakness and volatility since 2008, although the most extreme of these circumstances have abated and economic conditions and markets have shown positive, albeit tentative progress since the first quarter of 2009. While near-term U.S. economic prospects have improved, unemployment continues at elevated levels and many sovereign, U.S. federal and state governments continued to experience significant structural fiscal deficits, creating uncertainty as to levels of taxation, inflation and other economic fundamentals that may impact future growth prospects. There is significantly greater economic, fiscal and monetary uncertainty in Europe, due to the combination of poor economic growth, significant sovereign deficits which have called into question the future of the common currency used across most of Europe. These issues may have an indirect and potentially significant impact on the U.S. economy, although these prospects are not clearly defined at this time. Continuation of these conditions may potentially affect (among other aspects of our business) the demand for and claims made under our products, the ability of customers, counterparties and others to establish or maintain their relationships with us, our ability to access and efficiently use internal and external capital resources and our investment performance. In the event that these conditions persist and result in a prolonged period of economic uncertainty, our results of operations, our financial condition and/or liquidity, and competitor landscape could be materially and adversely affected. If opportunities for writing reinsurance and insurance through Maiden US do not materialize as we expect, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We believe that there will be opportunities to renew and write new reinsurance and insurance through Maiden US. However, we cannot assure you that Maiden US will retain its customers or write new business as we expect. Based upon industry developments during 2011, pricing conditions may be improving which could enhance our ability to write new business. However, market conditions have been highly competitive for an extended period of time and the breadth (by line of business) and duration of any improved pricing environment which may develop is highly uncertain. In addition, other companies may continue to offer reinsurance and insurance products on more competitive terms than we can provide. Under these circumstances, we might not be able to expand our specialty property/casualty reinsurance business and have a material adverse effect on our ability to fully implement our business strategy, as well as on our financial condition and results of operations. 31Table of ContentsOur actual (re)insured losses may be greater than our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses , which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We expect that our success will depend upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we will reinsure. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and the reporting of the loss by the insurer to its reinsurer. After we begin to write reinsurance business and to recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we will establish loss and loss adjustment expense reserves as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves will represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer or reinsurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments. As part of our reserving process, we will review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: •trends in claim frequency and severity;•changes in operations;•emerging economic and social trends;•inflation; and•changes in the regulatory and litigation environments.This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. We will establish or adjust reserves for our insurance subsidiaries in part based upon loss data received from the ceding companies with which we do business, including AmTrust and ACAC. There is a time delay that elapses between the receipt and recording of claims results by the ceding insurance companies or by the managing general agents and the receipt and recording of those results by us. Accordingly, establishment and adjustment of reserves for our insurance subsidiaries is dependent upon timely and accurately estimate reporting from cedants and agents. To the extent our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses is insufficient to cover actual loss and loss adjustment expenses, we will have to adjust our reserve and may incur charges to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For our property and casualty reinsurance underwriting, we depend on the policies, procedures and expertise of ceding companies; these companies may fail to accurately assess and price the risks they underwrite, which may lead us to inaccurately assess and price the risks we assume. Because we participate in property and casualty reinsurance markets, the success of our underwriting efforts depends, in part, upon the policies, procedures and expertise of the ceding companies making the original underwriting decisions. As is common among reinsurers, we do not separately evaluate each of the individual risks assumed under reinsurance treaties. We face the risk that these ceding companies may fail to accurately assess the risks that they assume initially, which, in turn, may lead us to inaccurately assess the risks we assume. If we fail to establish and receive appropriate premium rates or fail to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, we could face significant losses on these contracts. Operational risks, including human or systems failures, are inherent in our business. Operational risks and losses can result from many sources including fraud, errors by employees, failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper internal authorization, failure to comply with regulatory requirements or information technology failures. We believe our modeling, underwriting and information technology and application systems are critical to our business and reputation. Moreover, our technology and applications have been an important part of our underwriting process and our ability to compete successfully. Such technology is and will continue to be a very important part of our underwriting process. We have also licensed certain systems and data from third parties. We cannot be certain that we will have access to these, or comparable service providers, or that our technology or applications will continue to operate as intended. In addition, we cannot be certain that we would be able to replace these service providers or consultants without slowing our underwriting response time. A major defect or failure in our internal controls or information technology and application systems could result in management distraction, harm to our reputation, a loss or delay of revenues or increased expense. 32Table of ContentsThe occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. Although our business strategy generally precludes us from writing significant amounts of catastrophe exposed business in our reinsurance segment, most property reinsurance contains some exposure to catastrophic loss. Our Diversified Reinsurance segment includes only limited exposure to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. While we carefully manage our aggregate exposure to catastrophes, modeling errors and the incidence and severity of catastrophes, such as hurricanes, windstorms and large-scale terrorist attacks are inherently unpredictable, and our losses from catastrophes could be substantial. In addition, it is possible that we may experience an unusual frequency of smaller losses in a particular period. In either case, the consequences could be substantial volatility in our financial condition or results of operations for any fiscal quarter or year, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our ability to write new business. These losses could deplete our shareholders’ equity. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses from catastrophic events in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. We may face substantial exposure to losses from terrorism. U.S. insurers are required by state and federal law to offer coverage for terrorism in certain commercial lines. In response to the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the Congress enacted legislation designed to ensure, among other things, the availability of insurance coverage for foreign terrorist acts, including the requirement that insurers offer such coverage in certain commercial lines. The TRIA requires commercial property and casualty insurance companies to offer coverage for certain acts of terrorism and established a federal assistance program through the end of 2005 to help such insurers cover claims related to future terrorism-related losses. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act ("TRIEA") extended the federal assistance program through 2007, but it also set a per-event threshold that had to be met before the federal program would become applicable and also increased insurers’ statutory deductibles. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Revitalization Act ("TRIPRA") currently extends the federal assistance program through 2014. However, the Obama administration has proposed an elimination of the program in its fiscal 2011 budget. It is uncertain at this time whether the program will continue through its scheduled expiration date. Pursuant to TRIA, as extended, U.S. insurance companies must offer insureds coverage for acts of terrorism that are certified as such by the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, in concurrence with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, for an additional premium or decline such coverage. The federal government will reimburse commercial insurers for up to 85% of the losses due to certified acts of terrorism in excess of a deductible which, for 2008, is set at 20% of the insurer’s direct earned commercial lines premiums for the immediately preceding calendar year. The federal reimbursement is triggered only after a per-event threshold, referred to as the program trigger, has been reached. In the case of certified acts of terrorism taking place after March 31, 2006, the program trigger throughout the seven-year duration of the program has been set at $100 million for industry-wide insured losses. TRIPRA also expanded the definition of Act of Terrorism by removing the distinction between foreign and domestic acts of terrorism. The federal terrorism risk assistance provided by TRIA, TRIEA and TRIPRA will expire at the end of 2014. Any renewal may be on substantially less favorable terms. Pursuant to the quota share agreements with AmTrust and ACAC and the reinsurance agreements that we anticipate that our reinsurance subsidiaries will enter into with others, our subsidiaries will reinsure a portion of each ceding insurer’s losses resulting from terrorism. With respect to those reinsurance agreements that we have entered into to date, either terrorism coverage is specifically excluded or we do not consider exposure to terrorist acts to be significant. Although we expect that Maiden Bermuda will seek to retrocede some or all of this terrorism risk to unaffiliated reinsurers, it may be unable to do so on terms that it considers favorable, or at all. We may or may not use retrocessional and reinsurance coverage to limit our exposure to risks. Any retrocessional or reinsurance coverage that we obtain may be limited, and credit and other risks associated with our retrocessional and reinsurance arrangements may result in losses which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We will provide reinsurance to our clients and in turn we may or may not retrocede reinsurance we assume to other insurers and reinsurers. If we do not use retrocessional coverage or reinsurance, our exposure to losses will be greater than if we did obtain such coverage. If we do obtain retrocessional or reinsurance coverage, some of the insurers or reinsurers to whom we may retrocede coverage or reinsure with may be domiciled in Bermuda or other non-U.S. locations. We would be subject to credit and other risks that depend upon the financial strength of these reinsurers. 33Table of ContentsFurther, we will be subject to credit risk with respect to any retrocessional or reinsurance arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers and retrocessionaires would not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure or reinsure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance or retrocessional arrangements or the failure of any retrocessional arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. We will attempt to mitigate such risks by retaining collateral or trust accounts for premium and claims receivables, but nevertheless we cannot be assured that reinsurance will be fully collectable in the case of all potential claims outcomes. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, these changes may not become apparent until sometime after we have issued insurance or reinsurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our reinsurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. A recent example of emerging claims and coverage issues is the growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in our industry. The effects of this and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The integration of acquired companies may not be as successful as we anticipate. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including operational, strategic, and financial risks such as potential liabilities associated with the acquired business. Difficulties in integrating an acquired company may result in the acquired company performing differently than we currently expect or in our failure to realize anticipated expense-related efficiencies. Our existing businesses could also be negatively impacted by acquisitions. Technology breaches or failures, including, but not limited to, those resulting from cyber-attacks on us or our business partners and service providers, could disrupt or otherwise negatively impact our business.While technology can streamline many business processes and ultimately reduce the cost of operations, technology initiatives present certain risks. Our business is dependent upon our employees' and outsourcers' ability to perform, in an efficient and uninterrupted fashion, necessary business functions. Like all companies, our information technology systems are vulnerable to data breaches, interruptions or failures due to events that may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, theft, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers and general technology failures.A shutdown or inability to access one or more of our facilities, a power outage, or a failure of one or more of our information technology, telecommunications or other systems could significantly impair our ability to perform such functions on a timely basis. If sustained or repeated, such a business interruption, system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to write and process business, provide customer service, pay claims in a timely manner or perform other necessary business functions. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between our employees and our business, banking and investment partners depends on information technology and electronic information exchange. We believe that we have established and implemented appropriate security measures, controls and procedures to safeguard our information technology systems and to prevent unauthorized access to such systems and any data processed and/or stored in such systems, and we periodically employ third parties to evaluate and test the adequacy of such systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we have established a business continuity plan which is designed to ensure that we are able to maintain all aspects of our key business processes functioning in the midst of certain disruptive events, including any disruptions to or breaches of our information technology systems. Our business continuity plans are tested and evaluated for adequacy. Despite these safeguards, disruptions to and breaches of our information technology systems are possible and may negatively impact our business.It is possible that insurance policies we have in place with third-parties would not entirely protect us in the event that we experienced a breach, interruption or widespread failure of our information technology systems. Furthermore, we have not secured any insurance coverage designed to specifically protect us from the result of such events.Although we have experienced no known or threatened cases involving unauthorized access to our information technology systems and data or unauthorized appropriation of such data to date, we have no assurance that such technology breaches will not occur in the future.34Table of ContentsInsurance and Reinsurance Markets The property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry is cyclical in nature, which may affect our overall financial performance. Historically, the financial performance of the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry has tended to fluctuate in cyclical periods of price competition and excess capacity (known as a soft market) followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity (known as a hard market). Although the financial performance of an individual insurance or reinsurance company is dependent on its own specific business characteristics, the profitability of most property and casualty insurance and reinsurance companies tends to follow this cyclical market pattern. Beginning in 2000 and accelerating in 2001, the property and casualty insurance and reinsurance industry experienced a market reflecting increasing premium rates and more conservative risk selection. These trends have slowed beginning in 2004 and, in recent years market conditions have deteriorated at varying rates of speed with no reversals. Through 2011, the market has remained in a competitive environment in which underwriting capacity has expanded, risk selection has become less discrete and price competition has increased sharply. This additional underwriting capacity has resulted in increased competition from other insurance and reinsurance companies expanding the types or amounts of business they write, or from companies seeking to maintain or increase market share at the expense of underwriting discipline. In addition, despite the significant financial turmoil that occurred in 2008, market participant's capital levels have continued to improve due to positive earnings and improved values of risk assets over that time. Recent catastrophe activity in 2010 and 2011 appear to have slowed the trend of increasingly competitive market conditions and potentially are suggestive of improved pricing conditions in the near term for market participants. However, it is highly uncertain whether these potentially changed market conditions are sustainable, and if so, for how long, given that industry capital levels have not materially declined. Because this cyclicality is due in large part to the actions of our competitors and general economic factors beyond our control, we cannot predict with certainty the timing or duration of changes in the market cycle. These cyclical patterns, the actions of our competitors, and general economic factors could cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate, which may cause the price of our common shares to be volatile. The ultimate outcome of these events and their market impact is not known at this time. Negative developments in the workers’ compensation insurance industry could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In 2011, reinsurance of workers’ compensation insurance was 18.5% of net premiums written, which continues a trend of decreases in this line of business as a percentage of total net premiums written in recent years, as the Company continues to diversify. Nonetheless, negative developments in the economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the workers’ compensation insurance industry could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, if legislators in our larger markets were to enact legislation to increase the scope or amount of benefits for employees under workers’ compensation insurance policies without related premium increases or loss control measures, or if regulators made other changes to the regulatory system governing workers’ compensation insurance, this could negatively affect the workers’ compensation insurance industry in the affected markets. Currently, reductions in the number of people employed has affected the underlying payrolls which are generally the basis for insurance premiums charged and subsequently paid to reinsurers for the protection we offer. In New York, our largest state in terms of workers’ compensation premium volume, and in certain other states, insurance regulators set the premium rates. Insurance regulators may set rates below those required to maintain profitability on our worker’s compensation business. We compete with a large number of companies in the reinsurance industry for underwriting revenues. The worldwide reinsurance business is highly competitive, as well as cyclical by product and market. These cycles, as well as other factors that influence aggregate supply and demand for property and casualty reinsurance products, are outside of our control. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. There are many reinsurers throughout the world, and new reinsurance companies, based in Bermuda or elsewhere, may be formed at any time. We will compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. reinsurers that offer the lines of reinsurance that we will offer, target the same market as we do and utilize similar business strategies. We compete with various reputable and established reinsurers, such as Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd., Munich Reinsurance America, Inc., General Reinsurance Corporation, PartnerRe Ltd., Hannover Re Group, QBE Insurance Group, Transatlantic Holdings, Inc., Endurance Specialty Holdings, Ltd., Scor Reinsurance Company, Sirius International Group, Ltd., Odyssey Re Holdings Corporation, W.R. Berkley Corp., and Everest Re Group, Ltd. 35Table of ContentsSince we have a limited operating history, many of our competitors will have greater name and brand recognition than we will have. Many of them also have more (in some cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than we expect to have, and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we expect to, or will be able to, offer. Our competitive position will be based on many factors, including our perceived financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), knowledge of the types of business to be reinsured, speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. Since we have only been in operation since 2007, we may not be able to compete successfully on many of these bases. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. Consolidation in the insurance and reinsurance industry and increased competition on premium rates could lead to lower margins for us and less demand for our products and services. The insurance and reinsurance industry continues to undergo a process of consolidation as industry participants seek to enhance their product and geographic reach, client base, operating efficiency and general market power through merger and acquisition activities. We believe that the larger entities resulting from these mergers and acquisition activities may seek to use the benefits of consolidation, including improved efficiencies and economies of scale, to, among other things, implement price reductions for their products and services to increase their market shares. Consolidation among primary insurance companies may also lead to reduced use of reinsurance as the resulting larger companies may be able to retain more risk and may also have bargaining power in negotiations with reinsurers. If competitive pressures compel us to reduce our prices, our operating margins will decrease. As the insurance and reinsurance industry consolidates, competition may become more intense and the importance of acquiring and properly servicing each customer will become greater. We could incur greater expenses relating to customer acquisition and retention, which could reduce our operating margins. When the property-casualty insurance industry has exhibited a greater degree of competition, premium rates have come under downward pressure as a result. Greater competition could result in reduced volumes of reinsurance written and could reduce our profitability. Clients and Brokers Our business is dependent upon reinsurance brokers, managing general agents and other producers, including third party administrators and financial institutions, and the failure to develop or maintain these relationships could materially adversely affect our ability to market our products and services. We market our reinsurance products primarily through brokers and expect that we will derive a significant portion of our business from a limited number of brokers. Our failure to further develop or maintain relationships with brokers from whom we expect to receive our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on brokers subjects us to their credit risk. In accordance with industry practice, we anticipate that we will frequently pay amounts owed on claims under our reinsurance contracts to brokers, and these brokers in turn are required to pay and will pay these amounts over to the clients that have purchased reinsurance from us. If a broker fails to make such a payment, in a significant majority of business that we will write, it is highly likely that we will be liable to the client for the deficiency under local laws or contractual obligations, notwithstanding the broker’s obligation to make such payment. Likewise, when the client pays premiums for these policies to brokers for payment over to us, these premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts, whether or not we actually receive the premiums from the brokers. Consequently, we will assume a degree of credit risk associated with brokers with whom we work with respect to most of our reinsurance business. Financial Strength and Debt Ratings Maiden Bermuda, Maiden US and Maiden Specialty have received financial strength ratings of “A-” (Excellent) from A.M. Best and BBB+ (Good) from Standard & Poor’s. Ratings downgrades of either company may adversely affect our competitive position and our ability to meet our financial goals and capital requirements. Competition in the types of insurance business that we intend to reinsure is based on many factors, including the 36Table of Contentsperceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. Maiden Bermuda, Maiden US and Maiden Specialty have each received a financial strength rating of “A-” (Excellent) with a stable outlook from A.M. Best, which is the fourth highest of sixteen rating levels. These subsidiaries have also received a financial strength rating of BBB+ (Good) with a stable outlook from Standard & Poor’s, which is the sixth highest of twenty-one rating levels. Ratings from these agencies are an opinion of our financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to our future policyholders, and it is not an evaluation directed to our investors in our common shares or trust preferred securities, nor is it a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our common shares or trust preferred securities. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. The ratings of Maiden Bermuda, Maiden US and Maiden Specialty are subject to periodic review by, and may be revised downward or revoked at any time at the sole discretion of A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s. If A.M. Best were to downgrade Maiden Bermuda’s rating below “A-,” AII and other clients would have the right to terminate their respective reinsurance agreements. More generally, if A.M. Best or Standard & Poor’s were to downgrade Maiden Bermuda, Maiden US or Maiden Specialty, our competitive position would suffer, and our ability to market our products, to obtain customers and to compete in the reinsurance industry would be adversely affected. A subsequent downgrade, therefore, could result in a substantial loss of business because our insurance and reinsurance company clients may move to other reinsurers with higher claims paying and financial strength ratings. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Investments A significant amount of our invested assets are subject to changes in interest rates and market volatility. If we were unable to realize our investment objectives, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Investment income is an important component of our net income. We plan to invest approximately 90-95% of our investments in high grade marketable fixed income securities, cash and cash equivalents, and up to approximately 5-10% in other securities which may include high-yield securities and equity securities. As at December 31, 2011, the fixed income securities of $2.0 billion in our investment portfolio represented 86.9% of our total cash and invested assets, of which $2.2 million or 0.1% were other investments. As a result of market conditions prevailing at a particular time, the allocation of our portfolio to various asset types may vary from these targets at times. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets will fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because we intend to classify substantially all of our invested assets as available for sale, we expect changes in the market value of our securities will be reflected in shareholders’ equity. Our board of directors has established our investment policies and our executive management is implementing our investment strategy with the assistance of AII Insurance Management Limited, our investment manager. Although these guidelines stress diversification and capital preservation, our investment results will be subject to a variety of risks, including risks related to changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in general economic conditions and overall market conditions, interest rate fluctuations and market volatility. General economic conditions and overall market conditions may be adversely affected by U.S. involvement in hostilities with other countries and large-scale acts of terrorism, or the threat of hostilities or terrorist acts. Our investment portfolio includes a significant amount of interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies and domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under reinsurance policies, our liquidity needs could be substantial and may increase at any time. Changes in interest rates could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio and future investment income. For example, changes in interest rates can expose us to prepayment risks on mortgage-backed securities included in our investment portfolio (all, excluding one Commercial Mortgage-Backed Security ("CMBS"), are currently agency-backed and AA+ rated). Increases in interest rates will decrease the value of our investments in fixed-income securities. If increases in interest rates occur during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs, we may experience investment losses. If interest rates decline, reinvested funds will earn less than expected. Certain categories of fixed income securities can experience significant price declines for reasons unrelated to interest rates. Since 2007, global financial markets and credit markets in particular have experienced unprecedented volatility due to the effects of global economic weakness and resulting fiscal and monetary crises. Both the U.S. and other sovereign governments, particularly in Europe, have enacted significant fiscal and monetary measures which have elevated levels of liquidity in the credit market place in order to ensure economic stability and sustain recent limited economic growth. These measures have reduced interest rates to historically low levels and could continue to affect many types of fixed income securities, continuing the current period of higher than average price volatility. Based 37Table of Contentson the statements of the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks globally, this period of low interest rates is widely expected to continue for at least the next two years. In order to limit the Company's exposure to unexpected interest rate increases which would reduce the value of our fixed income securities and reduce our shareholders' equity, the Company has maintained the duration of its investment portfolio at 2.78 years as at December 31, 2011, which is lower than the duration of 3.8 years as at December 31, 2010. This shortened duration is likely to reduce the amount of investment income generated by our portfolio in 2012 and beyond, if the current interest rate environment does not change. In addition, these measures could increase the likelihood of inflation which would likely reduce the value of our fixed income securities and reduce our shareholders' equity. We may invest a portion of our portfolio in below investment-grade securities. Borrowers that issue below investment-grade securities are more sensitive to adverse economic conditions, including a recession. The risk of default by these borrowers and the risk that we may not be able to recover our investment are significantly greater than for other borrowers. We also may invest a portion of our portfolio in equity securities, including hedge funds, which are more speculative and more volatile than debt securities. If we do not structure our investment portfolio so that it is appropriately matched with our reinsurance liabilities, we may be forced to liquidate investments prior to maturity at a significant loss to cover such liabilities. For this or any of the other reasons discussed above, investment losses could significantly decrease our asset base, which would adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Any significant decline in our investment income would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth and our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. In 2007, we used approximately $450.0 million of the $500.0 million in net proceeds we received from a private offering and the $50.0 million our Founding Shareholders invested in us to capitalize Maiden Bermuda. We used the $260.0 million raised in the TRUPS Offering in January 2009 to capitalize Maiden US. In 2011, the Senior Note Offering refinanced a portion of the TRUPS Offering while providing us with our first public debt offering.However, while we have been successful to date in raising the capital necessary to prudently manage our business, our business has grown rapidly and we may need to raise additional funds to further capitalize Maiden Bermuda, Maiden US or and Maiden Specialty, or expand our IIS business. We anticipate that any such additional funds would be raised through equity, debt or hybrid financings. In addition, we may enter into an unsecured revolving credit facility or a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. We currently have no commitment from any lender with respect to a credit facility or a loan facility. Any equity, debt or hybrid financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, the interest of shareholders in our Company would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common shares. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have debt outstanding that could adversely affect our financial flexibility. In connection with the TRUPS Offering, Maiden NA issued a subordinated debenture in the principal amount of $260.0 million, which is the subject of a subordinated guarantee by Maiden Holdings, which currently has an outstanding principal balance of $152.5 million. In addition, in connection with the Senior Notes Offering in 2011, Maiden NA issued senior notes in the principal amount of $107.5 million, which is subject to a guarantee by Maiden Holdings which is senior to the guarantee issued with the debenture issued in connection with the TRUPS Offering. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. The level of debt outstanding could adversely affect our financial flexibility. Our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including:•limiting our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders;•increasing our vulnerability to changing economic, regulatory and industry conditions;•limiting our ability to compete and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry;•limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; •requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; and38Table of Contents•impacting rating agencies and regulators assessment of our Company's capital position, adequacy and flexibility and therefore, the financial strength ratings of rating agencies and regulators assessment of our solvency.Under the terms of our TRUPS Offering, if we prepay the TRUPS before January 20, 2014 we are required to pay a premium to security holders. This premium, along with an amortized discount currently recorded as a reduction of a liability, would affect both results of operations and our book value. The terms of the TRUPS Offering stipulate that a premium equal to 14% of the value of the TRUPS would be payable to the holders of the TRUPS if we were to pay off the securities prior to January 20, 2014. Also, at the time of the TRUPS Offering, we issued 11.7 million common shares to the holders of the TRUPS Offering as an inducement to invest in the TRUPS. The value assigned to these shares, which was $26.2 million at December 31, 2011, is recorded as a reduction of the liability for the TRUPS on our balance sheet and is being amortized into expense over the term of the TRUPS Offering (30 years) using the effective yield method.In 2011, in connection with the Senior Notes Offering, we repurchased $107.5 million of the TRUPS and as a result, pursuant to the terms of the TRUPS Offering, the Company incurred a non-recurring repurchase expense of approximately $15.1 million, which was reported in the Company's results of operations. As a result of the repurchase, the Company also incurred an additional non-recurring non-cash charge of approximately $20.3 million, which represents the accelerated amortization of original issue discount and issuance costs associated with equity issued in conjunction with the TRUPS Offering. If we were to fully pay off the remaining securities prior to January 20, 2014, we would incur $21.4 million in additional expenses along with incurring additional amortization charges to write off the remaining unamortized amounts which are presently $26.2 million. Thus our results of operations and book value would be reduced commensurately.While the Company’s liquidity is strong, we do not currently have a source or level of funding to prepay these obligations. To the extent that financing is sought to prepay those obligations, the cost associated with such financing would need to be sufficiently lower to justify the near-term financial impact of such an event. While we frequently evaluate the capital markets to gauge the capacity and costs associated with such a financing, it is unclear whether such levels of financing are available or cost-effective enough to proceed and the execution of such a financing would be subject to market conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. The availability and cost of security arrangements for reinsurance transactions may materially impact our ability to provide reinsurance from Bermuda to insurers domiciled in the United States. Maiden Bermuda is not licensed, approved or accredited as a reinsurer anywhere in the United States and, therefore, under the terms of most of its contracts with U.S. ceding companies, it is required to provide collateral to its ceding companies for unpaid ceded liabilities in a form acceptable to state insurance commissioners. Typically, this type of collateral takes the form of letters of credit issued by a bank, the establishment of a trust, or funds withheld. If these facilities are unavailable, not sufficient or if we are unable to arrange for other types of security on commercially acceptable terms, Maiden Bermuda’s ability to provide reinsurance to U.S. based clients may be severely limited. International Operations Our offices that operate in jurisdictions outside the Bermuda and U.S. are subject to certain limitations and risks that are unique to foreign operations. Our international operations are regulated in various jurisdictions with respect to licensing requirements, currency, security deposits, reserves and other matters. International operations may be harmed by political developments in foreign countries, which may be hard to predict in advance. Regulations governing technical reserves and remittance balances in some countries may hinder remittance of profits and repatriation of assets. As a result of the IIS Acquisition, we are entering into a variety of global insurance and reinsurance markets that we have limited experience with and results may differ from our expectations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The business associated with the IIS Acquisition and underwritten by Maiden Bermuda is primarily written in Germany, Russia, Latin America, Australia and other global markets that we have limited experience with. We have retained the entire management team and staff of GMAC IIS and OVS to improve the likelihood that the IIS Acquisition will achieve its expected results. We expect the transaction to generally perform within its overall stated targets. In addition, we have secured an arrangement with the largest primary insurer in the IIS Acquisition portfolio to continue to reinsure business with us for a period of three years. Further we have entered into cooperation agreements with the dealer association and manufacturer in that country to increase sales penetration through these arrangements. Despite these measures, there can be no guarantee that the IIS Acquisition will achieve the targets anticipated, or that the 39Table of Contentstransaction could result in losses that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Foreign currency fluctuations may reduce our net income and our capital levels adversely affecting our financial condition. We conduct business in a variety of non-U.S. currencies, the principal exposures being the euro, the British pound, the Canadian dollar, the Swedish krona and the Russian ruble. Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and exchange rate fluctuations relative to the U.S. dollar may materially impact our results and financial position. Our principal exposure to foreign currency risk is our obligation to settle claims in foreign currencies. In addition, we maintain and expect to continue to maintain a portion of our investment portfolio in investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. We may employ various strategies (including hedging) to manage our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. To the extent that these exposures are not fully hedged or the hedges are ineffective, our results or equity may be reduced by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2011, no such hedges or hedging strategies were in force or had been entered into. If the European common currency, the Euro, were to collapse, be devalued or undergo structural changes in its participating countries or the basis on which they participate, we could be impacted, potentially significantly by the subsequent effects of such a circumstance.We conduct a wide variety of business in countries in which the Euro is the local currency. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars and use widely reported exchange rates to convert this currency into U.S. dollars. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 8.6% of our net premiums written and 8.4% of our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses is Euro denominated. As at December 31, 2011 our fixed income portfolio contains: 1) $51.2 million of Euro-denominated non-U.S. government bonds, which constitutes 2.5% of the fixed income portfolio; and 2) $66.8 million of Euro-denominated non-U.S. corporate bonds , which constitutes 3.3% of the fixed income portfolio.Countries that participate in the Euro have been engulfed in significant economic uncertainty in recent years, but particularly in 2011. This uncertainty is the result of the cumulative effect of excessive sovereign debt, deficits by certain participating countries in the Euro and poor economic growth and prospects for the union as a whole. The uncertainty has been exacerbated by the lack (to date) of both definitive solutions to these issues and questions surrounding the adequacy of funding mechanisms by participating countries and other institutions to de-lever the economic union and improve its economic outlook. While not likely at this time, without satisfactory and timely resolution of these issues, the collapse or modification of the Euro cannot be ruled out at this time, with further uncertainty as to what forms of currency would take its place.As a result, we could be exposed to significantly greater foreign currency exposure than we estimate at this time. If the currency were impaired or disrupted to any significant degree, it could also impact our ability to conduct normal business operations in those participating countries.Regulation Compliance by our insurance subsidiaries with the legal and regulatory requirements to which they are subject is expensive. Any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our insurance subsidiaries are required to comply with a wide variety of laws and regulations applicable to insurance or reinsurance companies, both in the jurisdictions in which they are organized and where they sell their insurance and reinsurance products. The insurance and regulatory environment, in particular for offshore insurance and reinsurance companies, has become subject to increased scrutiny in many jurisdictions, including the United States, various states within the United States and the European Union (“EU”). In the past, there have been Congressional and other initiatives in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry. It is not possible to predict the future impact of changes in laws and regulations on our operations. The cost of complying with any new legal requirements affecting our subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our subsidiaries may not always be able to obtain or maintain necessary licenses, permits, authorizations or accreditations. They also may not be able to fully comply with, or to obtain appropriate exemptions from, the laws and regulations applicable to them. Any failure to comply with applicable law or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in restrictions on either the ability of the company in question, as well as potentially its affiliates, to do business in one or more of the jurisdictions in which they operate or on brokers on which we rely to produce business for us. In addition, any such failure to comply with applicable laws or to obtain appropriate exemptions could result in the imposition of fines or other sanctions. Any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business. Insurance statutes and regulations in jurisdictions outside and inside the United States could affect our profitability 40Table of Contentsand restrict our ability to operate. Maiden Bermuda is licensed as a Bermuda insurance company and is subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda. The applicable Bermuda statutes and regulations generally are designed to protect insureds and ceding insurance companies, not our shareholders. We do not intend Maiden Bermuda to be registered or licensed as an insurance company in any jurisdiction outside Bermuda or to conduct any insurance or reinsurance activities in the United States or elsewhere outside of Bermuda. Nevertheless, we expect that a large portion of the gross premiums written by Maiden Bermuda will be derived from (1) the Master Agreement with AII, (2) the quota share agreement with ACAC, and (3) from reinsurance contracts entered into with entities mostly domiciled in the United States and Europe. Inquiries into or challenges to the insurance activities of Maiden Bermuda may still be raised by U.S. or European insurance regulators in the future. In addition, even if Maiden Bermuda, as a reinsurer, is not directly regulated by applicable laws and regulations governing insurance in the jurisdictions where its ceding companies operate, these laws and regulations, and changes in them, can affect the profitability of the business that is ceded to Maiden Bermuda, and thereby affect our results of operations. The laws and regulations applicable to direct insurers could indirectly affect us in other ways as well, such as collateral requirements in various U.S. states to enable such insurers to receive credit for reinsurance ceded to us. In the past, there have been Congressional and other proposals in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States. Our exposure to potential regulatory initiatives could be heightened by the fact that Maiden Bermuda is intended to be domiciled in, and operate exclusively from, Bermuda. Bermuda is a small jurisdiction and may be disadvantaged when participating in global or cross-border regulatory matters as compared with larger jurisdictions such as the U.S. or the leading European Union countries. This disadvantage could be amplified by the fact that Bermuda, which is currently an overseas territory of the United Kingdom, may consider changes to its relationship with the United Kingdom in the future, including potentially seeking independence. If Maiden Bermuda were to become subject to any insurance laws and regulations of the United States or any U.S. state, which are generally more restrictive than Bermuda laws and regulations, at any time in the future, it might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing specified types of policies or contracts. Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the U.S. has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance and reinsurance companies and insurance holding companies. Further, the NAIC and state insurance regulators are re-examining existing laws and regulations, specifically focusing on modifications to holding company regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws. Any proposed or future legislation or NAIC initiatives may be more restrictive than current regulatory requirements or may result in higher costs. In 2008, the BMA introduced new risk-based capital standards for insurance companies as a tool to assist the BMA both in measuring risk and in determining appropriate levels of capitalization. The amended Bermuda insurance statutes and regulations pursuant to the new risk-based supervisory approach required additional filings by insurers to be made to the BMA. The required statutory capital and surplus of our Bermuda-based operating subsidiary increased under the BSCR. While our Bermuda-based operating subsidiary currently has excess capital and surplus under these new requirements, there can be no assurance that such requirement or similar regulations, in their current form or as may be amended in the future, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Europe Within the EU, the EU Reinsurance Directive of November 2005 (the “Directive”) was adopted. Member States of the EU and the EEA ("European Economic Area") were required to implement this by December 2007 however several Member States were late in the implementation of the Directive and, in a few cases, further legislation is still necessary. The Directive requires member countries to lift barriers to trade within the EU for companies that are domiciled in an EU country., therefore, allowing reinsurers established in the EU to provide services to all EEA states. As a result, Maiden LF, being established in Sweden and regulated by the Swedish Finansinspektionen ("Swedish FSA"), is able, subject to regulatory notifications and there being no objection from the Swedish FSA and the Member States concerned, to provide insurance and reinsurance services in all EEA Member States.The Directive also does not prohibit EEA insurers from obtaining reinsurance from reinsurers licensed outside the EEA. As such, and subject to the specific rules in particular Member States, Maiden Bermuda may do business from Bermuda with insurers in EEA Member States, but it may not directly operate its reinsurance business within the EEA. Currently, each individual EEA Member State may impose conditions on reinsurance provided by Bermuda based 41Table of Contentsreinsurers which could restrict their future provision of reinsurance to the EEA Member State concerned. A number of EEA Member States currently restrict the extent to which Bermudian reinsurers may promote their services in those Member States, and a few have certain prohibitions on the purchase of insurance from reinsurers not authorized in the EEA.In addition to the Directive, the European Union is introducing a new regulatory regime for the regulation of the insurance and reinsurance sector known as “Solvency II.” Solvency II is a principles-based regulatory regime which seeks to promote financial stability, enhance transparency and facilitate harmonization among insurance and reinsurance companies within the European Community (“EC”). Solvency II employs a risk-based approach to setting capital requirements for insurers and reinsurers. One aspect of Solvency II (the details of which are currently being developed) concerns the treatment of reinsurance ceded by EC insurers to reinsurers headquartered in a state outside the EC. For example, consideration is being given as to whether reinsurance ceded to a non-EC reinsurer should be treated in the same way as reinsurance ceded to an EC reinsurer, and whether EC decants should require their non-EC reinsurers to provide collateral to cover unearned premium and outstanding claims provisions. The Solvency II directive proposes that EC and non-EC reinsurers shall be treated in the same way provided that the non-EC jurisdiction is found to have a regulatory regime “equivalent” to that of Solvency II. Our reinsurance subsidiaries are headquartered in non-EC countries. If the regulatory regimes of such countries are found not to be equivalent to that of Solvency II and if our reinsurance subsidiaries fall below a certain minimum credit rating, then cedants in the EC may be prevented from recognizing the reinsurance provided to them by our reinsurance subsidiaries for the purpose of meeting their capital requirements or we may be required to provide collateral for our obligations to EC insurers. This could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. Solvency II is scheduled to be fully implemented by the end of 2013. United States In the United States, licensed reinsurers are highly regulated and must comply with financial supervision standards comparable to those governing primary insurers. For additional discussion of the regulatory requirements to which Maiden Holdings, as a holding company, and its subsidiaries are subject, see Item 1 “Business — Regulatory Matters” in this Form 10-K. Any failure to comply with applicable laws could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on our ability to do business, and could also result in fines and other sanctions, any or all of which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, these statutes and regulations may, in effect, restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to write new business or, as indicated below, distribute funds to Maiden Holdings. In recent years, some U.S. state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the NAIC and state insurance regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations and interpretations of existing laws and develop new laws. The new interpretations or laws may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. In addition, the federal government has undertaken initiatives, including Dodd-Frank, in several areas that may impact the reinsurance industry, including tort reform, corporate governance and the taxation of reinsurance companies. Applicable insurance laws regarding the change of control of insurance companies may limit the acquisition of our shares. Under Bermuda law, for so long as Maiden Holdings has an insurance subsidiary registered under the Insurance Act, the BMA may at any time, by written notice, object to a person holding 10% or more of its common shares if it appears to the BMA that the person is not or is no longer fit and proper to be such a holder. In such a case, the BMA may require the shareholder to reduce its holding of common shares in Maiden Holdings and direct, among other things, that such shareholder’s voting rights attaching to the common shares shall not be exercisable. A person who does not comply with such a notice or direction from the BMA will be guilty of an offense. This may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our Company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. In addition to the foregoing, we are subject to U.S. state statutes governing insurance holding companies, which generally require that any person or entity desiring to acquire direct or indirect control of any of our U.S. insurance company subsidiaries obtain prior regulatory approval. “Control” is generally defined as the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the company, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract (except a commercial contract for goods or non-management services) or otherwise. Under the laws of most U.S. states, any beneficial owner of 10% or more of the outstanding voting securities of an insurance company or its holding company is presumed to have acquired control, unless this presumption is rebutted. These laws may also discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of our company, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our shareholders might consider to be desirable. Any person having a shareholding of 10% or more of the issued share capital in Maiden Holdings would be considered 42Table of Contentsto have an indirect holding in our U.S. insurance subsidiaries at or over the 10% limit. Any change that resulted in the indirect acquisition or disposal of a shareholding of greater than or equal to 10% in the share capital of Maiden Holdings may require approval of the relevant U.S. state insurance regulators prior to the transaction. Changes in accounting principles and financial reporting requirements could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. U.S. GAAP and related financial reporting requirements are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by the relevant authoritative bodies. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Changes in U.S. GAAP and financial reporting requirements, or in the interpretation of U.S. GAAP or those requirements, could result in material changes to our reported results and financial condition. Moreover, the SEC is currently evaluating International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) to determine whether IFRS should be incorporated into the financial reporting system for U.S. issuers. Certain of these standards could result in material changes to our reported results of operation. Employee Issues We are dependent on our key executives. We may not be able to attract and retain key employees or successfully integrate our new management team to fully implement our newly formulated business strategy. Our success depends largely on our senior management, which includes, among others, Art Raschbaum, our President and Chief Executive Officer, John Marshaleck, our Chief Financial Officer, Karen Schmitt, our President of Maiden US and Maiden Specialty, Patrick J. Haveron, our Executive Vice President, and Ronald M. Judd, our President of Maiden Global. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these executive officers, as well as with additional former key employees of GMAC RE and GMAC IIS. These employees were instrumental in developing the book of business with the former GMAC RE and GMAC IIS and have been managing the retention of that business as it has transferred to Maiden US, Maiden Specialty or Maiden Bermuda. Our inability to attract and retain additional personnel or the loss of the services of any of our senior executives or key employees could delay or prevent us from fully implementing our business strategy and could significantly and negatively affect our business. Our business in Bermuda could be adversely affected by Bermuda employment restrictions. Currently, we employ twelve non-Bermudians in our Bermuda office including our President and Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer and our Chief Underwriting Officer. We may hire additional non-Bermudians as our business grows. Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians (other than spouses of Bermudians, holders of permanent residents’ certificates and holders of working residents’ certificates) may not engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a valid government work permit. A work permit may be granted or renewed upon showing that, after proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian, or holder of a permanent resident’s or working resident’s certificate who meets the minimum standards reasonably required by the employer has applied for the job. The Bermuda government’s policy places a six year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to certain exemptions for key employees. A work permit is issued with an expiry date (up to five years) and no assurances can be given that any work permit will be issued or, if issued, renewed upon the expiration of the relevant term. We may not be able to use the services of one or more of our non-Bermudian employees if we are not able to obtain work permits for them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Corporate Governance Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. Maiden Holdings is a holding company. As a result, we do not have, and will not have, any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiaries. We expect that dividends and other permitted distributions from Maiden Bermuda, Maiden Global (and its subsidiaries), Maiden LF and Maiden NA (and its subsidiaries) will be our sole source of funds to pay dividends to shareholders and meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments, if any, and other expenses. Bermuda law and regulations, including, but not limited to, Bermuda insurance regulations, will restrict the declaration and payment of dividends and the making of distributions by Maiden Bermuda, unless specific regulatory requirements are met. In addition, Maiden Bermuda might enter into contractual arrangements in the future that could impose restrictions on any such payments. If we cannot receive dividends or other permitted distributions from Maiden Bermuda as a result of such restrictions, we will be unable to pay dividends as currently contemplated by our board of directors. It is anticipated Maiden Bermuda can pay us dividends of approximately $3.8 million.The inability of Maiden Bermuda to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 43Table of ContentsWe are subject to Bermuda regulatory constraints that will affect our ability to pay dividends on our shares and make other payments. Under the Companies Act, we may declare or pay a dividend out of distributable reserves only if we have reasonable grounds for believing that we are, or would after the payment be, able to pay our liabilities as they become due and if the realizable value of our assets would thereby not be less than the aggregate of our liabilities and issued share capital and share premium accounts. The ability of Maiden US and Maiden Specialty to pay dividends is regulated, and under certain circumstances, restricted, pursuant to applicable law. If Maiden US and Maiden Specialty cannot pay dividends to Maiden NA, Maiden NA may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to Maiden Holdings, which may not, in turn, be able to pay dividends to shareholders. As at December 31, 2011, Maiden US could pay dividends to Maiden NA of approximately $0 and Maiden Specialty could pay dividends to Maiden US of $3.6 million without prior regulatory approval. Any dividends paid by Maiden US and Maiden Specialty would reduce its surplus. Under the Insurance Act, Maiden Bermuda is required to prepare Statutory Financial Statements and to file a Statutory Financial Return in Bermuda. The Insurance Act also requires Maiden Bermuda to maintain a minimum share capital of $120. To satisfy these requirements, the statutory capital and surplus of Maiden Bermuda at December 31, 2011 was approximately $693.4 million (2010 – $670.1 million) and the amount required to be maintained under Bermuda law, the Minimum Solvency Margin, was $226.5 million (2010 – $164.6 million) at December 31, 2011. Maiden Bermuda was also required to maintain a minimum liquidity ratio. All requirements were met by Maiden Bermuda throughout the period. In addition, Maiden Bermuda is subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions under the Insurance Act that limit the maximum amount of annual dividends or distributions to be paid by Maiden Bermuda to Maiden Holdings without notification to the BMA of such payment (and in certain cases prior approval of the BMA). Maiden Bermuda is allowed to pay dividends provided the payment of the dividends does not result in Maiden Bermuda failing to comply with the ECR as calculated by the BSCR. Maiden Bermuda is currently completing its 2011 BSCR and as at December 31, 2011, it is anticipated Maiden Bermuda can pay dividends or distributions not exceeding $3.8 million. Maiden Bermuda is registered as a Class 3B reinsurer under the Insurance Act and therefore must maintain capital at a level equal to its ECR which is established by reference to the BSCR model. The BSCR employs a standard mathematical model that correlates the risk underwritten to the capital that is dedicated to the business. The regulatory requirements are designed to have insurers operate at or above a threshold capital level, which exceeds the BSCR. While not specifically referred to in the Insurance Act, the BMA has established a TCL for each Class 3B insurer equal to 120% of its ECR. While a Class 3B insurer is not currently required to maintain its statutory capital and surplus at this level, the TCL serves as an early warning tool for the BMA and failure to maintain statutory capital at least equal to the TCL will likely result in increased BMA regulatory oversight. Maiden Bermuda is currently completing its 2011 BSCR and believes that it will meet the ECR as at December 31, 2011. A few significant shareholders may influence or control the direction of our business. If the ownership of our common shares continues to be highly concentrated, it may limit your ability and the ability of other shareholders to influence significant corporate decisions. The interests of our Founding Shareholders may not be fully aligned with your interests, and this may lead to a strategy that is not in your best interest. As at March 7, 2012, our Founding Shareholders beneficially control approximately 28.3% of our outstanding common shares. Although they do not act as a group, our Founding Shareholders exercise significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, and their concentrated holdings may delay or deter possible changes in control of Maiden Holdings, which may reduce the market price of our common shares. We currently intend to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 per common share; however, any determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors currently intends to authorize the payment of a cash dividend of $0.08 per common share each quarter. Any determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our results of operations and cash flows, our financial position and capital requirements, general business conditions, legal, tax, regulatory, rating agency and any contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant, including Bermuda legal and regulatory constraints. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate as a result of factors beyond our control, which may cause the price of our shares to be volatile. The revenues and results of operations of reinsurance companies historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: •fluctuations in interest rates, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment that affect returns on invested assets;44Table of Contents•changes in the frequency or severity of claims;•volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks;•price competition;•inadequate loss and loss adjustment expense reserves;•cyclical nature of the property and casualty insurance market;•negative developments in the specialty property and casualty reinsurance sectors in which we operate; and•reduction in the business activities of AmTrust, ACAC or any of our ceding insurers.If our revenues and results of operations fluctuate as a result of one or more of these factors, the price of our shares may be volatile. Future sales of shares may adversely affect their price. Future sales of our common shares by our shareholders or us, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. As at March 7, 2012, 72,221,999 common shares are outstanding. In addition, we have reserved 10,000,000 common shares for issuance under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan. As at March 7, 2012, the total options outstanding was 2,902,794 Sales of substantial amounts of our shares, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing price of the shares and may make it more difficult for us to sell our equity securities in the future, or for shareholders to sell their shares, at a time and price that they deem appropriate. We are subject to additional financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements that may be difficult for us to satisfy. We are subject to financial and other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including the requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market and certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, which impose significant compliance obligations upon us. In particular, we are, or will be, required to: •enhance the roles and duties of our board of directors, our board committees and management;•supplement our internal accounting function, including hiring staff with expertise in accounting and financial reporting for a public company, as well as implement appropriate and sufficient accounting and reporting systems, and enhance and formalize closing procedures at the end of our accounting periods;•prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the U.S. federal securities laws;•involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the activities listed above;•establish or outsource an internal audit function;•enhance our investor relations function; and•establish new control policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures, segregation of duties and procedures and insider trading.These obligations require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements, and implementing or maintaining them could adversely affect our business or operating results. In addition, if we fail to implement or maintain the requirements with respect to our internal accounting and audit functions, our ability to report our operating results on a timely and accurate basis would be impaired. Provisions in our bye-laws may reduce or increase the voting rights of our shares. In general, and except as provided under our bye-laws and as provided below, the common shareholders have one vote for each common share held by them and are entitled to vote, on a non-cumulative basis, at all meetings of 45Table of Contentsshareholders. However, if, and so long as, the shares of a shareholder are treated as “controlled shares” (as determined pursuant to Sections 957 and 958 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”)) of any U.S. Person (as that term is defined in the risk factors under the section captioned “Taxation” within this Item on page 52 (that owns shares directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) and such controlled shares constitute 9.5% or more of the votes conferred by our issued shares, the voting rights with respect to the controlled shares owned by such U.S. Person will be limited, in the aggregate, to a voting power of less than 9.5%, under a formula specified in our bye-laws. The formula is applied repeatedly until the voting power of all 9.5% U.S. Shareholders has been reduced to less than 9.5%. In addition, our board may limit a shareholder’s voting rights when it deems it appropriate to do so to (i) avoid the existence of any 9.5% U.S. Shareholder; and (ii) avoid certain material adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us, any of our subsidiaries or any direct or indirect shareholder or its affiliates. “Controlled shares” include, among other things, all shares that a U.S. Person is deemed to own directly, indirectly or constructively (within the meaning of section 958 of the Code). The amount of any reduction of votes that occurs by operation of the above limitations will generally be reallocated proportionately among our other shareholders whose shares were not “controlled shares” of the 9.5% U.S. Shareholder so long as such reallocation does not cause any person to become a 9.5% U.S. Shareholder. Under these provisions, certain shareholders may have their voting rights limited, while other shareholders may have voting rights in excess of one vote per share. Moreover, these provisions could have the effect of reducing the votes of certain shareholders who would not otherwise be subject to the 9.5% limitation by virtue of their direct share ownership. We are authorized under our bye-laws to request information from any shareholder for the purpose of determining whether a shareholder’s voting rights are to be reallocated under the bye-laws. If any holder fails to respond to this request or submits incomplete or inaccurate information, we may, in our sole discretion, eliminate the shareholder’s voting rights. Anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our bye-laws contain provisions that may entrench directors and make it more difficult for shareholders to replace directors even if the shareholders consider it beneficial to do so. In addition, these provisions could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable. For example, these provisions may prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging changes in management and takeover attempts in the future. Examples of provisions in our bye-laws that could have such an effect include the following: •our board of directors may reduce the total voting power of any shareholder in order to avoid adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequences to us or any direct or indirect holder of our shares or its affiliates; and•our directors may, in their discretion, decline to record the transfer of any common shares on our share register, if they are not satisfied that all required regulatory approvals for such transfer have been obtained or if they determine such transfer may result in a non-de minimis adverse tax, legal or regulatory consequence to us or any direct or indirect holder of shares or its affiliates.It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our organizational documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, amalgamation, tender offer or other change of control that holders of our shares may consider favorable. These provisions impose various procedural and other requirements that could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect various corporate actions. These provisions could: •have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us;•discourage bids for our securities at a premium over the market price;•adversely affect the price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of our securities; or•impede the ability of the holders of our securities to change our management.In addition, AII and ACAC are entitled to terminate their respective Quota Share Agreements if we undergo a change in control. Because we expect the business we reinsure from AmTrust and ACAC to constitute a substantial portion of our business, this termination right may deter parties who are interested in acquiring us, may prevent 46Table of Contentsshareholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our common shares and may depress the price of our common shares below levels that might otherwise prevail. U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than U.S. persons who are shareholders of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act, which applies to us, differs in certain material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. As a result of these differences, U.S. persons who own our shares may have more difficulty protecting their interests than U.S. persons who own shares of a U.S. corporation. Set forth below is a summary of certain significant provisions of the Companies Act, including modifications adopted pursuant to our bye-laws, applicable to us which differ in certain respects from provisions of Delaware corporate law. Because the following statements are summaries, they do not discuss all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to us and our shareholders. Interested Directors. Bermuda law provides that if a director has a personal interest in a transaction to which the company is also a party and if the director discloses the nature of this personal interest at the first opportunity, either at a meeting of directors or in writing to the directors, then the company will not be able to declare the transaction void solely due to the existence of that personal interest and the director will not be liable to the company for any profit realized from the transaction. In addition, Bermuda law and our bye-laws provide that, after a director has made the declaration of interest referred to above, he is allowed to be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he has an interest, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the relevant board meeting. Under Delaware law such transaction would not be voidable if: •the material facts as to such interested director’s relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the board of directors and the board in good faith authorizes the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors;•such material facts are disclosed or are known to the shareholders entitled;•to vote on such transaction and the transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the majority of shares entitled to vote thereon; or•the transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified.Under Delaware law, such interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which such director derived an improper personal benefit. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. The amalgamation of a Bermuda company with another company or corporation (other than certain affiliated companies) requires the amalgamation agreement to be approved by the company’s board of directors and by its shareholders. Under our bye-laws, we may, with the approval of a majority of votes cast at a general meeting of our shareholders at which a quorum is present, amalgamate with another Bermuda company or with a body incorporated outside Bermuda. In the case of an amalgamation, a shareholder may apply to a Bermuda court for a proper valuation of such shareholder’s shares if such shareholder is not satisfied that fair value has been paid for such shares. Under Delaware law, with certain exceptions, a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all the assets of a corporation must be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. Under Delaware law, a shareholder of a corporation participating in certain major corporate transactions may, under certain circumstances, be entitled to appraisal rights pursuant to which such shareholder may receive cash in the amount of the fair value of the shares held by such shareholder (as determined by a court) in lieu of the consideration such shareholder would otherwise receive in the transaction. Shareholders’ Suit. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many United States jurisdictions. Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda. However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in the name of the company to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of the company, is illegal or would result in the violation of our memorandum of association or bye-laws. Furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of our shareholders than actually approved it. The winning party in such an action generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such action. Our bye-laws provide that shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of such director’s or officer’s duties, except with respect to any fraud or dishonesty of such director or officer. Class actions and derivative actions generally are available to shareholders under Delaware law for, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law. In such actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with such 47Table of Contentsaction. Indemnification of Directors. We may indemnify our directors or officers in their capacity as directors or officers of any loss arising or liability attaching to them by virtue of any rule of law in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty. Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer of the corporation against expenses (including attorneys’ fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in defense of an action, suit or proceeding by reason of such position if such director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, such director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers.We are a Bermuda company and it may be difficult for you to enforce judgments against us or our directors and executive officers. We are incorporated under the laws of Bermuda and our business is based in Bermuda. In addition, most of our directors and officers reside outside Bermuda and a substantial portion of our assets will be and the assets of these persons are, and will continue to be, located in jurisdictions outside Bermuda. As such, it may be difficult or impossible to effect service of process within the United States upon us or those persons or to recover against us or them on judgments of U.S. courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Further, no claim may be brought in Bermuda against us or our directors and officers in the first instance for violation of U.S. federal securities laws because these laws have no extraterritorial jurisdiction under Bermuda law and do not have force of law in Bermuda. A Bermuda court may, however, impose civil liability, including the possibility of monetary damages, on us or our directors and officers if the facts alleged in a complaint constitute or give rise to a cause of action under Bermuda law. We have been previously advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman, our Bermuda counsel, that there is doubt as to whether the courts of Bermuda would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our directors and officers, as well as the experts named in this Report, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or original actions brought in Bermuda against us or these persons predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws. Further, we have been advised by Conyers Dill & Pearman that there is no treaty in effect between the United States and Bermuda providing for the enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, and there are grounds upon which Bermuda courts may not enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Some remedies available under the laws of U.S. jurisdictions, including some remedies available under the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in Bermuda courts as contrary to that jurisdiction’s public policy. Because judgments of U.S. courts are not automatically enforceable in Bermuda, it may be difficult for you to recover against us based upon such judgments. Our internal control and reporting systems might not be effective in the future, which could increase the risk that we would become subject to restatements of our financial results or to regulatory action or litigation or other developments that could adversely affect our business. Our ability to produce accurate financial statements and comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our maintenance of internal control and reporting systems, as well as on our ability to attract and retain qualified management and accounting and actuarial personnel to further develop our internal accounting function and control policies. If we fail to effectively establish and maintain such reporting and accounting systems or fail to attract and retain personnel who are capable of designing and operating such systems, these failures will increase the likelihood that we may be required to restate our financial results to correct errors or that we will become subject to legal and regulatory infractions, which may entail civil litigation and investigations by regulatory agencies including the SEC. In addition, if our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and our financial flexibility and the value of our stock could be adversely impacted. Relationship with AmTrust and ACAC We are dependent on AmTrust and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business. AmTrust is Maiden’s largest client relationship and we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our business from AmTrust in the near term. We commenced our reinsurance business by providing traditional quota share reinsurance to AmTrust through the Master Agreement with AmTrust’s Bermuda reinsurance subsidiary AII, assuming initially a 40% quota share portion of the net liabilities less recoveries of the policies written by AmTrust. In 2011, we provided additional quota share reinsurance through the European Hospital Liability Quota Share which is a separate one-year 40% quota share agreement with AmTrust Europe Limited and AmTrust International Underwriters Limited. The European Hospital Liability Quota Share covers those entities medical liability business in Europe, substantially all of which is in Italy at the present time. Despite the ongoing growth of our reinsurance relationship with AmTrust and its 48Table of Contentssubsidiaries, with the ongoing diversification of the Company through the GMAC Acquisition and IIS Acquisition, along with entering into the ACAC Quota Share in recent years, AmTrust now represents a reduced percentage of the overall portfolio. We are still dependent, however, on AmTrust and its subsidiaries for a substantial portion of our business. Our Master Agreement with AII has been renewed for an additional three years (until June 30, 2014), subject to certain early termination provisions (including if the A.M. Best rating of Maiden Bermuda is reduced below “A-”). The Master Agreement will be extended for additional terms of three years unless either party elects not to renew. There is no assurance that this agreement will not terminate. The termination of the Master Agreement would significantly reduce our revenues and could have a material adverse effect on us. At the same time, there are risks related to the business of AmTrust and its insurance subsidiaries that may adversely impact our ability to continue doing business with them. In addition, we are not able to control the types or amounts of reinsurance AmTrust purchases from unaffiliated reinsurers, and any changes AmTrust makes to such reinsurance may affect our profitability and ability to write additional business. Our initial arrangements with AmTrust were negotiated while we were its affiliate. The arrangements could be challenged as not reflecting terms that we would agree to in arm’s-length negotiations with an independent third party; moreover, our business relationship with AmTrust and its subsidiaries may present, and may make us vulnerable to, possible adverse tax consequences, difficult conflicts of interest, and legal claims that we have not acted in the best interest of our shareholders. We entered into a quota share agreement with AII, which reinsures AmTrust’s insurance company subsidiaries, and a Master Agreement with AmTrust, pursuant to which we and AmTrust agreed that we will cause Maiden Bermuda to enter into the quota share agreement. The asset management agreement with an AmTrust subsidiary, the reinsurance brokerage agreement with an AmTrust subsidiary, the warrants previously issued to our Founding Shareholders (which were exchanged for restricted common shares in September 2010) and the expired provisional employment agreement with our former Chief Executive Officer, Max G. Caviet, were negotiated while we were an affiliate of AmTrust. These circumstances could increase the likelihood that the IRS would claim that the agreements between us and AmTrust were not executed on an arm’s-length basis and any such assertion, if not disproved by us, could result in adverse tax consequences to us. Because (i) our Founding Shareholders collectively own or control approximately 59% of the outstanding shares of AmTrust’s common stock, (ii) our Founding Shareholders sponsored our formation, and (iii) our Founding Shareholders’ common shares represent approximately 28.3% of our outstanding common shares; we therefore may be deemed an affiliate of AmTrust. Due to our close business relationship with AmTrust, we may be presented with situations involving conflicts of interest with respect to the agreements and other arrangements we will enter into with AmTrust and its subsidiaries, exposing us to possible claims that we have not acted in the best interest of our shareholders. The arrangements between us and AmTrust were modified somewhat after they were originally entered into and there could be future modifications. The Chairman of the Board currently holds the positions of President, Chief Executive Officer and director of AmTrust, and our former Chief Executive Officer and director is currently employed by AmTrust as an executive officer. These dual positions may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest and related legal challenges. Barry D. Zyskind, our non-executive Chairman of the Board, is the President, Chief Executive Officer and director of AmTrust and, as such, he does not serve our Company on a full-time basis. Mr. Zyskind is expected to continue in both of his positions for the foreseeable future. In addition, Max G. Caviet, our former Chief Executive Officer and director, is currently employed by AmTrust as an executive officer. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to AmTrust or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiary, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of Maiden Holdings and AmTrust diverge. Because AmTrust was our only significant customer until November 2008, remains our largest customer, and is expected to remain our largest customer for at least the next several years, AmTrust could have the ability to significantly influence such situations. However, the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, which consists entirely of independent directors, does review and approve all related party transactions. 49Table of ContentsOne of our Founding Shareholders owns the majority of the common stock of ACAC, and AmTrust has an investment in ACAC. This may present, and make us vulnerable to, difficult conflicts of interest and related legal challenges. In November 2009, we announced an agreement in principal with ACAC regarding a multi-year 25% quota share agreement expected to generate over $200 million in annual revenue. The contract commenced on March 1, 2010 after final regulatory approval and the closing of ACAC’s acquisition of GMACI’s U.S. consumer property and casualty insurance business, as well as a small amount of commercial auto business. ACAC is owned by one of our Founding Shareholders, Michael Karfunkel, and the Michael Karfunkel 2005 Grantor Retained Annuity Trust (the “Trust”), which is controlled by Michael Karfunkel. The Trust currently owns 72.4% of ACAC’s issued and outstanding common stock, Michael Karfunkel currently owns 27.6% of ACAC’s issued and outstanding common stock and AmTrust owns preferred shares convertible into 21.25% of the issued and outstanding common stock of ACAC. Conflicts of interest could arise with respect to business opportunities that could be advantageous to ACAC or its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us or our subsidiary, on the other hand. In addition, potential conflicts of interest may arise should the interests of Maiden Holdings and ACAC diverge. Because it is anticipated that ACAC will be a significant customer for at least the next several years, one of our Founding Shareholders could have the ability to significantly influence such situations. However, the Audit Committee of the Company’s Board of Directors, which consists entirely of independent directors, does review and approve all related party transactions, except those related to compensation, which our independent Compensation Committee reviews. Our funds will be loaned to AII to be placed in trusts for the benefit of AmTrust’s insurance companies or will be placed in trusts for the benefit of other ceding companies. Maiden Bermuda has agreed to collateralize its obligations under the Master Agreement by one or more of the following methods at the election of Maiden Bermuda: •by lending funds (which may include cash or investments) on an unsecured basis to AII pursuant to a loan agreement between Maiden Bermuda and AII with such funds being deposited by AII into the trust accounts established or to be established by AII for the sole benefit of AmTrust’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries pursuant to the reinsurance agreements between AII and those AmTrust subsidiaries;•by transferring to AII assets for deposit into those trust accounts;•by delivering letters of credit to the applicable U.S. AmTrust insurance subsidiaries on behalf of AII; or•by requesting that AII cause such AmTrust insurance subsidiary to withhold premiums in lieu of remitting such premiums to AII.As a result of our use of Regulation 114 trusts accounts or letters of credit and our election to lend funds to AII, a substantial portion of our assets will not be available to us for other uses, which could reduce our financial flexibility. If collateral is required to be provided to any other AmTrust insurance company subsidiaries under applicable law or regulatory requirements, Maiden Bermuda will provide collateral to the extent required, although Maiden Bermuda does not expect that such collateral will be required unless an AmTrust insurance company subsidiary is domiciled in the United States. Maiden Bermuda currently is satisfying its collateral requirements under the Master Agreement by lending funds (which may include cash or investments) on an unsecured basis to AII pursuant to a loan agreement. As at December 31, 2011, $168.0 million was on loan to AII. Maiden Bermuda is not a party to the reinsurance agreements between AII and AmTrust’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries or the related reinsurance trust agreements and has no rights there under. If one or more of these AmTrust subsidiaries withdraws Maiden Bermuda’s assets from their trust account, draws down on its letter of credit or misapplies withheld funds that are due to Maiden and that subsidiary is or becomes insolvent, we believe it may be more difficult for Maiden Bermuda to recover any such amounts to which we are entitled than it would be if Maiden Bermuda had entered into reinsurance and trust agreements with these AmTrust subsidiaries directly. AII has agreed to immediately return to Maiden Bermuda any collateral provided by Maiden Bermuda that one of those subsidiaries improperly utilizes or retains, and AmTrust has agreed to guarantee AII’s repayment obligation and AII’s payment obligations under its loan agreement with Maiden Bermuda. We are subject to the risk that AII and/or AmTrust may be unable or unwilling to discharge these obligations. In addition, if AII experiences a change in control and Maiden Bermuda chooses not to terminate the Master Agreement, AmTrust’s guarantee obligations will terminate immediately and automatically. We will not be able to control AmTrust’s or ACAC’s decisions relating to its other reinsurance, and AmTrust and/or ACAC may change its reinsurance in ways that could adversely affect us. The reinsurance ceded by AmTrust and ACAC is net of any reinsurance that AmTrust and ACAC obtain from 50Table of Contentsunaffiliated reinsurers. For example, Maiden Bermuda will receive 40% of AmTrust’s premiums (net of commissions in the case of AmTrust’s UK subsidiary) net of premiums ceded to unaffiliated reinsurers, and will be liable for 40% of losses and loss adjustment expenses on the ceded business net of any reinsurance recoverable (whether collectible or not) from unaffiliated reinsurers. We are not able to control the types or amounts of reinsurance that AmTrust or ACAC purchases from unaffiliated reinsurers. If AmTrust and/or ACAC chose to purchase additional reinsurance from unaffiliated reinsurers, AmTrust and/or ACAC would reduce the premium revenue ceded to us. The purchase of such additional reinsurance would however, in general inure to our benefit. Taxation We may become subject to taxes in Bermuda after 2035, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results and on an investment in our shares. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under the Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, of Bermuda, has given each of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda an assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax computed on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to Maiden Holdings, Maiden Bermuda or any of their respective operations or their respective shares, debentures or other obligations (except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by them in respect of real property or leasehold interests in Bermuda held by them) until March 31, 2035. Given the limited duration of the Minister of Finance’s expected assurance, we cannot be certain that we will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. Since Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda are incorporated in Bermuda, we will be subject to changes of law or regulation in Bermuda that may have an adverse impact on our operations, including imposition of tax liability. The impact of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s directive to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect our tax status in Bermuda. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the “OECD”) has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of tax havens and preferential tax regimes in countries around the world. In the OECD’s report dated April 18, 2002 and periodically updated, Bermuda was not listed as an uncooperative tax haven jurisdiction because it had previously committed to eliminate harmful tax practices and to embrace international tax standards for transparency, exchange of information and the elimination of any aspects of the regimes for financial and other services that attract business with no substantial domestic activity. We are not able to predict what changes will arise from the commitment or whether such changes will subject us to additional taxes. We may be subject to U.S. federal income tax, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares. If either Maiden Holdings or Maiden Bermuda were considered to be engaged in a trade or business in the United States, it could be subject to U.S. federal income and additional branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings that are effectively connected to such U.S. business or in the case of Maiden Bermuda, if it is entitled to benefits under the United States income tax treaty with Bermuda and if Maiden Bermuda were considered engaged in a trade or business in the United States through a permanent establishment, Maiden Bermuda could be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the portion of its earnings that are attributable to its permanent establishment in the United States, in which case its results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda are Bermuda companies. We intend to manage our business so that each of these companies should operate in such a manner that neither of these companies should be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business and, thus, should not be subject to U.S. federal taxation (other than the U.S. federal excise tax on insurance and reinsurance premium income attributable to insuring or reinsuring U.S. risks and U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S. source investment income). However, because (i) there is considerable uncertainty as to activities which constitute being engaged in a trade or business within the United States; (ii) a significant portion of Maiden Bermuda’s business is reinsurance of AmTrust’s insurance subsidiaries and ACAC’s insurance subsidiaries; (iii) Maiden Bermuda has entered into a brokerage services agreement with IGI Intermediaries, Inc. (“IGI Inc.”) (an AmTrust subsidiary that provides brokerage services in the United States); (iv) our Chairman of the Board is AmTrust’s President and Chief Executive Officer, and certain of our executive officers or directors and former executive officers are also either executive officers of AmTrust or related to directors of AmTrust, including (a) our former interim Chief Financial Officer for part of 2007 was at the time and is AmTrust’s Chief Financial Officer, (b) our former Chief Executive Officer is currently an executive officer of AmTrust, and (c) one of our directors is related to a significant shareholder of AmTrust; (v) one of our Founding Shareholders, Michael Karfunkel, controls ACAC; (vi) we have an asset management agreement with a subsidiary of AmTrust and may also have additional contractual relationships with AmTrust and its subsidiaries in the future, and (vii) the activities conducted outside the United States related to Maiden Bermuda’s start-up were limited, thus we cannot be certain that the IRS will not contend successfully that we are engaged in a trade or business in the U.S.51Table of Contents Potential Additional Application of the Federal Insurance Excise Tax. The IRS, in Revenue Ruling 2008-15, has formally announced its position that the U.S. federal insurance excise tax (the “FET”) is applicable (at a 1% rate on premiums) to all reinsurance cessions or retrocessions of risks by non-U.S. insurers or reinsurers to non-U.S. reinsurers where the underlying risks are either (i) risks of a U.S. entity or individual located wholly or partly within the United States or (ii) risks of a non-U.S. entity or individual engaged in a trade or business in the United States which are located within the United States (“U.S. Situs Risks”), even if the FET has been paid on prior cessions of the same risks. The legal and jurisdictional basis for, and the method of enforcement of, the IRS’s position is unclear. Maiden Bermuda has not determined if the FET should be applicable with respect to risks ceded to it by, or by it to, a non-U.S. insurance company. If the FET is applicable, it should apply at a 1% rate on premium for all U.S. Situs Risks ceded to Maiden Bermuda by a non-U.S. insurance company, or by Maiden Bermuda to a non-U.S. insurance company, even though the FET also applies at a 1% rate on premium ceded to Maiden Bermuda with respect to such risks. Holders of 10% or more of our shares may be subject to U.S. income taxation under the controlled foreign corporation rules. If you are a “10% U.S. Shareholder” of a non-U.S. corporation (defined as a U.S. Person who owns (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively (as defined below)) at least 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote) that is a controlled foreign corporation, which we refer to as a CFC, for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during a taxable year, and you own shares in the CFC directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year, you must include in your gross income for U.S. federal income tax purposes your pro rata share of the CFC’s “subpart F income,” even if the subpart F income is not distributed. “Subpart F income” of a non-U.S. insurance corporation typically includes foreign personal holding company income (such as interest, dividends and other types of passive income), as well as insurance and reinsurance income (including underwriting and investment income). A non-U.S. corporation is considered a CFC if 10% U.S. Shareholders own (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or by attribution by application of the constructive ownership rules of section 958(b) of the Code) (that is, “constructively”) more than 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of voting stock of that non-U.S. corporation or the total value of all stock of that corporation. For purposes of taking into account insurance income, a CFC also includes a non-U.S. insurance company in which more than 25% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock (or more than 25% of the total value of the stock) is owned (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) by 10% U.S. share holders on any day during the taxable year of such corporation. For purposes of this discussion, the term “U.S. Person” means: (i) an individual citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a partnership or corporation created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or under the laws of any State thereof (including the District of Columbia), (iii) an estate, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if either (1) a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more U.S. Persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (2) the trust has a valid election in effect to be treated as a U.S. Person for U.S. federal income tax purposes or (v) any other person or entity that is treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as if it were one of the foregoing. Because our Founding Shareholders owned all of the shares of Maiden Holdings prior to July 3, 2007, Maiden Holdings was a CFC during the period of 2007 prior to July 3, 2007. Following the 2007 private offering, Barry Zyskind may be treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda as a result of his seat on the board of Maiden Holdings, George Karfunkel and/or Michael Karfunkel may be treated as a 10% U.S. Shareholder of Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda as a result of Yehuda Neuberger’s seat on the board of Maiden Holdings, because of Mr. Neuberger’s significant familial connections to the Karfunkels and, through them, to AmTrust. We believe, subject to the discussion below, that because of provisions in our organizational documents that limit voting power and other factors, no U.S. Person who acquired our shares directly or indirectly through one or more non-U.S. entities should be treated as owning (directly, indirectly through non-U.S. entities or constructively) 10% or more of the total voting power of all classes of Maiden Holdings’ or Maiden Bermuda’s shares. However, the IRS could challenge the effectiveness of the provisions in our organizational documents and a court could sustain such a challenge. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that a U.S. Person (other than the Founding Shareholders) who owns our shares will not be characterized as a 10% U.S. Shareholder. U.S. Persons who hold our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at ordinary income rates on their proportionate share of Maiden Bermuda’s related person insurance income. If U.S. persons are treated as owning 25% or more of Maiden Bermuda’s shares (by vote or by value) (as is expected to be the case) and the related person insurance income (or RPII) of Maiden Bermuda (determined on a gross basis) 52Table of Contentswere to equal or exceed 20% of Maiden Bermuda’s gross insurance income in any taxable year and direct or indirect insureds (and persons related to those insureds) own directly or indirectly through entities 20% or more of the voting power or value of our shares, then a U.S. Person who owns any shares of Maiden Bermuda (directly or indirectly through non-U.S. entities) on the last day of the taxable year would be required to include in its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes such person’s pro rata share of Maiden Bermuda’s RPII for the entire taxable year, determined as if such RPII were distributed proportionately only to U.S. Persons at that date, regardless of whether such income is distributed. In addition, any RPII that is includible in the income of a U.S. tax-exempt organization generally will be treated as unrelated business taxable income. The amount of RPII earned by Maiden Bermuda (generally, premium and related investment income from the direct or indirect insurance or reinsurance of any direct or indirect U.S. holder of shares or any person related to such holder) will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of persons directly or indirectly insured or reinsured by Maiden Bermuda. As at December 31, 2011, we believe that either (i) the direct or indirect insureds of Maiden Bermuda (and related persons) should not directly or indirectly own 20% or more of either the voting power or value of our shares or (ii) the RPII (determined on a gross basis) of Maiden Bermuda should not equal or exceed 20% of Maiden Bermuda’s gross insurance income for the taxable year ending December 31, 2011 and we do not expect both of these thresholds to be exceeded in the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be certain that this will be the case because some of the factors which determine the extent of RPII may be beyond our control. U.S. Persons who dispose of our shares may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation at the rates applicable to dividends on a portion of their gains if any. The RPII rules provide that if a U.S. Person disposes of shares in a non-U.S. insurance corporation in which U.S. Persons own 25% or more of the shares (even if the amount of gross RPII is less than 20% of the corporation’s gross insurance income and the ownership of its shares by direct or indirect insureds and related persons is less than the 20% threshold), any gain from the disposition will generally be treated as a dividend to the extent of the holder’s share of the corporation’s undistributed earnings and profits that were accumulated during the period that the holder owned the shares (whether or not such earnings and profits are attributable to RPII). In addition, such a holder will be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, regardless of the amount of shares owned by the holder. These RPII rules should not apply to dispositions of our shares because Maiden Holdings will not be directly engaged in the insurance business. The RPII provisions, however, have never been interpreted by the courts or the U.S. Treasury Department in final regulations, and regulations interpreting the RPII provisions of the Code exist only in proposed form. It is not certain whether these regulations will be adopted in their proposed form or what changes or clarifications might ultimately be made thereto or whether any such changes, as well as any interpretation or application of the RPII rules by the IRS, the courts, or otherwise, might have retroactive effect. The U.S. Treasury Department has authority to impose, among other things, additional reporting requirements with respect to RPII. Accordingly, the meaning of the RPII provisions and the application thereof to Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda is uncertain. U.S. Persons who hold our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences if Maiden Holdings is considered to be a passive foreign investment company. If Maiden Holdings is considered a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a U.S. Person who owns directly or, in some cases, indirectly (e.g. through a non-U.S. partnership) any of our shares will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including subjecting the investor to a greater tax liability than might otherwise apply and subjecting the investor to a tax on amounts in advance of when such tax would otherwise be imposed, in which case your investment could be materially adversely affected. In addition, if Maiden Holdings were considered a PFIC, upon the death of any U.S. individual owning our shares, such individual’s heirs or estate would not be entitled to a “step-up” in the basis of the shares which might otherwise be available under U.S. federal income tax laws. We believe that we are not, and we currently do not expect to become, a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes; however, there can be no assurance that we will not be deemed a PFIC by the IRS. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC provisions to an insurance company. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying these rules may be forthcoming. We cannot predict what impact, if any, such guidance would have on a shareholder that is subject to U.S. federal income taxation. The Quota Share Agreements between Maiden Bermuda and AmTrust and ACAC, respectively, may be subject to recharacterization or other adjustment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.Under section 845 of the Code, the IRS may allocate income, deductions, assets, reserves, credits and any other items related to a reinsurance agreement among certain related parties to the reinsurance agreement, or in circumstances where one party is an agent of the other, recharacterize such items, or make any other adjustment, in order to reflect the proper source, character or amount of the items for each party. In addition, if a reinsurance contract has a significant tax avoidance effect on any party to the contract, the IRS may make adjustments with respect to such party to eliminate the tax avoidance effect. No regulations have been issued under section 845 of the Code. Accordingly, the application of such provisions is uncertain and we cannot predict what impact, if any, such provisions may have on us. 53Table of ContentsChanges in U.S. federal income tax law could materially adversely affect an investment in our shares. In the past, legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress (but not enacted) intended to eliminate certain perceived tax advantages of companies (including insurance companies) that have legal domiciles outside the United States but have certain U.S. connections. It is possible that legislation could be introduced and enacted by the current Congress or future Congresses that could have an adverse effect on us, or our shareholders. For example, President Obama’s 2011 budget proposal would reduce or eliminate the tax deduction for reinsurance premiums paid by a U.S. insurer or reinsurer to an affiliate in a lower tax jurisdiction, such as Bermuda. Another proposal would treat foreign corporations as U.S. corporations for tax purposes if management and control occur primarily in the United States. Any such change in U.S. tax law could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Additionally, the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations regarding whether a company is engaged in a trade or business within the United States, or is a PFIC or whether U.S. Persons would be required to include in their gross income the “subpart F income” or the RPII of a CFC are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis. There are currently no regulations regarding the application of the PFIC rules to insurance companies and the regulations regarding RPII are still in proposed form. New regulations or pronouncements interpreting or clarifying such rules may be forthcoming. We cannot be certain if, when or in what form such regulations or pronouncements may be provided and whether such guidance will have a retroactive effect. We may be subject to United Kingdom taxes, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and on an investment in our shares. A company which is resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes is subject to UK corporation tax in respect of its worldwide income and gains. While Maiden Global is a UK company, neither Maiden Holdings nor Maiden Bermuda are incorporated in the UK. Nevertheless, Maiden Holdings or Maiden Bermuda would be treated as being resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes if its central management and control were exercised in the UK. The concept of central management and control is indicative of the highest level of control of a company’s affairs, which is wholly a question of fact. The directors and officers of both Maiden Holdings and Maiden Bermuda intend to manage their affairs so that both companies are resident in Bermuda, and not resident in the UK, for UK tax purposes. However, Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs could challenge our tax residence status. A company which is not resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes can nevertheless be subject to UK corporation tax at the rate of 30% if it carries on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK, but the charge to UK corporation tax is limited to profits (including income profits and chargeable gains) attributable directly or indirectly to such permanent establishment. The directors and officers of Maiden Bermuda intend to operate the business of Maiden Bermuda in such a manner that it does not carry on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK. Nevertheless, Her Majesty’s Revenue & Customs might contend successfully that Maiden Bermuda is trading in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK because there is considerable uncertainty as to the activities which constitute carrying on a trade in the UK through a permanent establishment in the UK. The UK has no income tax treaty with Bermuda. Companies that are neither resident in the UK nor entitled to the protection afforded by a double tax treaty between the UK and the jurisdiction in which they are resident are liable to income tax in the UK, at the basic rate of 22%, on the profits of a trade carried on in the UK, where that trade is not carried on through a permanent establishment in the UK. The directors and officers of Maiden Bermuda intend to operate the business in such a manner that Maiden Bermuda will not fall within the charge to income tax in the UK (other than by way of deduction or withholding) in this respect. If either Maiden Holdings or Maiden Bermuda were treated as being resident in the UK for UK corporation tax purposes, or if Maiden Bermuda were treated as carrying on a trade in the UK, whether through a permanent establishment or otherwise, the results of our operations would be materially adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 