ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Factors That Could Affect Future Results Set forth below and elsewhere in this report, and in other documents we file with the SEC are descriptions of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also affect our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Business Our near-term success is highly dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, Stimuvax, and we cannot be certain that it will be successfully developed or receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our lead product candidate, Stimuvax, is being evaluated in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, or NSCLC, and, until the March 2010 suspension of clinical trials, was being evaluated in a global Phase 3 trial in breast cancer. The March 2010 suspension by Merck KGaA of the clinical development program for Stimuvax was the result of a suspected unexpected serious adverse event reaction in a patient with multiple myeloma participating in an exploratory clinical trial. In June 2010, we announced that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, lifted the clinical hold it had placed on the Phase 3 clinical trials in NSCLC. Merck KGaA has resumed the treatment and enrollment in these trials for Stimuvax in NSCLC. The clinical hold on the Stimuvax trial in breast cancer remains in effect and Merck KGaA has discontinued the Phase 3 trial in breast cancer. Stimuvax will require the successful completion of the ongoing NSCLC trials and possibly other clinical trials before submission of a biologic license application, or BLA, or its foreign equivalent for approval. This process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. Pursuant to our agreement with Merck KGaA, Merck KGaA is responsible for the development and the regulatory approval process and any subsequent commercialization of Stimuvax. We cannot assure you that Merck KGaA will continue to advance the development and commercialization of Stimuvax as quickly as would be optimal for our stockholders. In addition, Merck KGaA has the right to terminate the 2008 license agreement upon 30 days’ prior written notice if, in its reasonable judgment, it determines there are issues concerning the safety or efficacy of Stimuvax that would materially and adversely affect Stimuvax’s medical, economic or competitive viability. Clinical trials involving the number of sites and patients required for FDA approval of Stimuvax may not be successfully completed. If these clinical trials fail to demonstrate that Stimuvax is safe and effective, it will not receive regulatory approval. Even if Stimuvax receives regulatory approval, it may never be successfully commercialized. If Stimuvax does not receive regulatory approval or is not successfully commercialized, or if Merck were to terminate the 2008 license agreement, we may not be able to generate revenue, become profitable or continue our operations. Any failure of Stimuvax to receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition and could result in a substantial decline in the price of our common stock. We understand that Merck KGaA intends to submit for regulatory approval of Stimuvax for the treatment of NSCLC based on the results of a single Phase 3 trial, the START study. If the FDA determines that the results of this single study do not demonstrate the efficacy of Stimuvax with a sufficient degree of statistical certainty, the FDA may require an additional Phase 3 study to be performed prior to regulatory approval. Such a trial requirement would delay or prevent commercialization of Stimuvax and could result in the termination by -17- Table of Contents Merk KGaA of our license agreement with them. In addition, there can be no guarantee that the results of an additional trial would be supportive of the results of the START trial. Stimuvax and ONT-10 are based on novel technologies, which may raise new regulatory issues that could delay or make FDA approval more difficult. The process of obtaining required FDA and other regulatory approvals, including foreign approvals, is expensive, often takes many years and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Stimuvax and ONT-10 are novel; therefore, regulatory agencies may lack experience with them, which may lengthen the regulatory review process, increase our development costs and delay or prevent commercialization of Stimuvax and our other active vaccine products under development. To date, the FDA has approved for commercial sale in the United States only one active vaccine designed to stimulate an immune response against cancer. Consequently, there is limited precedent for the successful development or commercialization of products based on our technologies in this area. The suspension of Merck’s clinical development program for Stimuvax could severely harm our business. In March 2010, we announced that Merck KGaA suspended the clinical development program for Stimuvax as the result of a suspected unexpected serious adverse event reaction in a patient with multiple myeloma participating in an exploratory clinical trial. The suspension was a precautionary measure while an investigation of the cause of the adverse event was conducted, but it affected the Phase 3 clinical trials in NSCLC and in breast cancer. In June 2010, we announced that the FDA, lifted the clinical hold it had placed on the Phase 3 clinical trials in NSCLC. Merck KGaA has resumed the treatment and enrollment in these trials for Stimuvax in NSCLC. The clinical hold on the Stimuvax trial in breast cancer remains in effect and Merck KGaA has discontinued the Phase 3 trial in breast cancer. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we can offer no assurances that this serious adverse event was not caused by Stimuvax or that there are not or will not be more such serious adverse events in the future. The occurrence of this serious adverse event, or other such serious adverse events, could result in a prolonged delay, including the need to enroll more patients or collect more data, or the termination of the clinical development program for Stimuvax. For example, we have been informed that Merck KGaA plans to increase the size of the START trial of Stimuvax® in NSCLC from an estimated number of 1322 to 1476 patients as part of a plan to maintain the statistical power of the trial. This change was agreed in consultation with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), and the Special Protocol Agreement (“SPA”) for START has been amended to reflect the change. Another unexpected serious adverse event reaction could cause a similar suspension of clinical trials in the future. Any of these foregoing risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. The terms of our secured debt facility may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take some actions, and our failure to comply with such covenants, whether due to events beyond our control or otherwise, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. In February 2011 we borrowed $5.0 million pursuant to the terms of a loan and security agreement, or the loan agreement, with General Electric Capital Corporation, or GECC. In addition, at any time before November 1, 2011 we may, at our sole option, borrow from GECC an additional $7.5 million, subject to our satisfaction of specified conditions -18- Table of Contents precedent. The loan agreement with GECC contains certain restrictive covenants that limit or restrict our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, pay dividends or make distributions, or repurchase stock. The loan agreement also requires that we have 12 months of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents (as calculated in the loan agreement) as of each December 31 during the term of the loan agreement. A breach of any of these covenants or the occurrence of certain other events of default, which are customary in similar loan facilities, would result in a default under the loan agreement. If there was an uncured event of default, GECC could cause all amounts outstanding under the loan agreement to become due and payable immediately and could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness, including our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We cannot be certain that our assets would be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under the loan agreement, either upon maturity or acceleration upon an uncured event of default. Our ability to continue with our planned operations is dependent on our success at raising additional capital sufficient to meet our obligations on a timely basis. If we fail to obtain additional financing when needed, we may be unable to complete the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We have expended and continue to expend substantial funds in connection with our product development activities and clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The very limited funds generated currently from our operations will be insufficient to enable us to bring all of our products currently under development to commercialization. Accordingly, we need to raise additional funds from the sale of our securities, partnering arrangements or other financing transactions in order to finance the commercialization of our product candidates. The current financing environment in the United States, particularly for biotechnology companies like us, remains challenging and we can provide no assurances as to when such environment will improve. For these reasons, among others, we cannot be certain that additional financing will be available when and as needed or, if available, that it will be available on acceptable terms. For example, pursuant to the terms of the loan agreement with GECC, we may borrow an additional $7.5 million at any time before November 1, 2011, subject to our satisfaction of certain specified conditions precedent. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy such conditions and, thus, the additional $7.5 million may be unavailable. If financing is available, it may be on terms that adversely affect the interests of our existing stockholders or restrict our ability to conduct our operations. If adequate financing is not available, we may need to continue to reduce or eliminate our expenditures for research and development, testing, production and marketing for some of our product candidates. Our actual capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including: • activities and arrangements related to the commercialization of our product candidates; • the progress of our research and development programs; • the progress of pre-clinical and clinical testing of our product candidates; • the time and cost involved in obtaining regulatory approvals for our product candidates; • the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights with respect to our intellectual property; • the effect of competing technological and market developments; • the effect of changes and developments in our existing licensing and other relationships; and • the terms of any new collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. -19- Table of Contents We may not be able to secure sufficient financing on acceptable terms. If we cannot, we may need to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our research and development programs, any of which would be expected to have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Further, since we failed to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, we are ineligible to utilize a registration statement on Form S-3 to raise capital and will continue to be ineligible to use such registration statement until at least April 1, 2011. Our inability to take advantage of the benefits afforded by Form S-3 will limit our financing alternatives and may significantly increase our cost of capital or the dilutive impact on the voting and economic interests of our existing stockholders, as transactions effected using a registration statement on Form S-3 are simpler and less costly to execute and may be perceived by potential investors as being more attractive than those effected in a different manner. If financing is available, the terms of such financing may place restrictions on us and adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the interests of our existing stockholders. We have a history of net losses, we anticipate additional losses and we may never become profitable. Other than the year ended December 31, 2008, we have incurred net losses in each fiscal year since we commenced our research activities in 1985. The net income we realized in 2008 was due entirely to our December 2008 transactions with Merck KGaA and we do not anticipate realizing net income again for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $347.3 million. Our losses have resulted primarily from expenses incurred in research and development of our product candidates. We do not know when or if we will complete our product development efforts, receive regulatory approval for any of our product candidates, or successfully commercialize any approved products. As a result, it is difficult to predict the extent of any future losses or the time required to achieve profitability, if at all. Any failure of our products to complete successful clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval and any failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. There is no assurance that we will be granted regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. Merck KGaA has been testing our lead product candidate, Stimuvax, in Phase 3 clinical trials for the treatment of NSCLC. We have initiated two Phase 1/2 trials in 2010 for PX-866, and plan to initiate two additional Phase 2 trials in the first half of 2011. Our other product candidates remain in the pre-clinical testing stages. The results from pre-clinical testing and clinical trials that we have completed may not be predictive of results in future pre-clinical tests and clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. For example, the clinical trials for Stimuvax were suspended as a result of a suspected unexpected serious adverse event reaction in a patient. Although the clinical hold for trials in NSCLC has been lifted, it remains in effect for the trial in breast cancer and Merck KGaA has decided to discontinue the Phase 3 trial in breast cancer. Regulatory approval may not be obtained for any of our product candidates. If our product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, the resulting delays in developing other product candidates and conducting related pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, as well as the potential need for additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -20- Table of Contents We are dependent upon Merck KGaA to develop and commercialize our lead product candidate, Stimuvax. Under our license agreement with Merck KGaA for our lead product candidate, Stimuvax, Merck KGaA is entirely responsible for the development, manufacture and worldwide commercialization of Stimuvax and the costs associated with such development, manufacture and commercialization. Any future payments, including royalties to us, will depend on the extent to which Merck KGaA advances Stimuvax through development and commercialization. Merck KGaA has the right to terminate the 2008 license agreement, upon 30 days’ written notice, if, in Merck KGaA’s reasonable judgment, Merck KGaA determines that there are issues concerning the safety or efficacy of Stimuvax which materially adversely affect Stimuvax’s medical, economic or competitive viability; provided that if we do not agree with such determination we have the right to cause the matter to be submitted to binding arbitration. Our ability to receive any significant revenue from Stimuvax is dependent on the efforts of Merck KGaA. If Merck KGaA fails to fulfill its obligations under the 2008 license agreement, we would need to obtain the capital necessary to fund the development and commercialization of Stimuvax or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party. We could also become involved in disputes with Merck KGaA, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization of Stimuvax and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If Merck KGaA terminates or breaches its agreement with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing Stimuvax would be materially and adversely affected. We and Merck KGaA currently rely on third party manufacturers to supply our product candidates, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates. We currently depend on third party manufacturers for the manufacture of PX-866. Any disruption in production, inability of these third party manufacturers to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs or other impediments with respect to development or manufacturing could adversely affect our ability to continue our research and development activities or successfully complete pre-clinical studies and clinical trials, delay submissions of our regulatory applications or adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all. Merck KGaA currently depends on a single manufacturer, Baxter International Inc., or Baxter, for the supply of our lead product candidate, Stimuvax, and on Corixa Corp. (now a part of GlaxoSmithKline plc, or GSK) for the manufacture of the adjuvant in Stimuvax. If Stimuvax is not approved by 2015, Corixa/GSK may terminate its obligation to supply the adjuvant. In this case, we would retain the necessary licenses from Corixa/GSK required to have the adjuvant manufactured, but the transfer of the process to a third party would delay the development and commercialization of Stimuvax, which would materially harm our business. Similarly, we rely on a single manufacturer, Fermentek, LTD for the supply of Wortmannin, a key raw ingredient for PX-866. Without the timely support of Fermentek, LTD, our development program for PX-866 could suffer significant delays, require significantly higher spending or face cancellation. Our product candidates have not yet been manufactured on a commercial scale. In order to commercialize a product candidate, the third party manufacturer may need to increase its manufacturing capacity, which may require the manufacturer to fund capital improvements to support the scale up of manufacturing and related activities. With respect to PX-866, we may be required to provide all or a portion of these funds. The third party manufacturer may not be able to successfully increase its manufacturing capacity for our product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval in a timely or economic -21- Table of Contents manner, or at all. If any manufacturer is unable to provide commercial quantities of a product candidate, we (or Merck KGaA, in the case of Stimuvax) will need to successfully transfer manufacturing technology to a new manufacturer. Engaging a new manufacturer for a particular product candidate could require us (or Merck KGaA, in the case of Stimuvax) to conduct comparative studies or use other means to determine equivalence between product candidates manufactured by a new manufacturer and those previously manufactured by the existing manufacturer, which could delay or prevent commercialization of our product candidates. If any of these manufacturers is unable or unwilling to increase its manufacturing capacity or if alternative arrangements are not established on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, the development and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Any manufacturer of our products must comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program or by foreign regulatory agencies. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for our product candidates could severely harm our business. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive pre-clinical studies and clinical trials as a condition to regulatory approval. Pre-clinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and take many years to complete. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • safety issues or side effects; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; • our or our collaborators’ ability to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • our or our collaborators’ ability to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in pre-clinical studies and clinical trials; and • varying interpretation of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. It is possible that none of our product candidates will complete clinical trials in any of the markets in which we and/or our collaborators intend to sell those product candidates. Accordingly, we and/or our collaborators may not receive the regulatory approvals necessary to market our product candidates. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates would prevent or delay their commercialization and severely harm our business and financial condition. For example, although the suspension of the clinical development program for Stimuvax in March 2010 has been lifted for trials in NSCLC, it remains in effect for trials in -22- Table of Contents breast cancer and, in any event, may result in a prolonged delay or in the termination of the clinical development program for Stimuvax. For example, Merck KGaA has announced that it has decided to discontinue the Phase 3 trial in breast cancer. A prolonged delay or termination of the clinical development program would have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The failure to enroll patients for clinical trials may cause delays in developing our product candidates. We may encounter delays if we, any collaboration partners or Merck KGaA are unable to enroll enough patients to complete clinical trials. Patient enrollment depends on many factors, including, the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites and the eligibility criteria for the trial. Moreover, when one product candidate is evaluated in multiple clinical trials simultaneously, patient enrollment in ongoing trials can be adversely affected by negative results from completed trials. Our product candidates are focused in oncology, which can be a difficult patient population to recruit. In addition, the suspension of the Stimuvax trials may require Merck KGaA to enroll additional patients which could delay such trials. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or be able to commercialize our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to assist in conducting our clinical trials. We have, in the ordinary course of business, entered into agreements with these third parties. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our pre-clinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Even if regulatory approval is received for our product candidates, the later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Approval of a product candidate may be conditioned upon certain limitations and restrictions as to the drug’s use, or upon the conduct of further studies, and may be subject to continuous review. After approval of a product, if any, there will be significant ongoing regulatory compliance obligations, and if we or our collaborators fail to comply with these requirements, we, any of our collaborators or Merck KGaA could be subject to penalties, including: • warning letters; • fines; • product recalls; • withdrawal of regulatory approval; • operating restrictions; -23- Table of Contents • disgorgement of profits; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. Regulatory agencies may require us, any of our collaborators or Merck KGaA to delay, restrict or discontinue clinical trials on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. For example, in March 2010, Merck KGaA suspended the clinical development program for Stimuvax in both NSCLC and breast cancer as the result of a suspected unexpected serious adverse event reaction in a patient with multiple myeloma participating in an exploratory clinical trial. Although the clinical hold placed on Stimuvax clinical trials in NSCLC has been lifted, the suspension of clinical trials in breast cancer remains in effect and Merck KGaA has announced that it has decided to discontinue the Phase 3 trial in breast cancer. In addition, we, any of our collaborators or Merck KGaA may be unable to submit applications to regulatory agencies within the time frame we currently expect. Once submitted, applications must be approved by various regulatory agencies before we, any of our collaborators or Merck KGaA can commercialize the product described in the application. All statutes and regulations governing the conduct of clinical trials are subject to change in the future, which could affect the cost of such clinical trials. Any unanticipated costs or delays in such clinical studies could delay our ability to generate revenues and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. To date, we have not filed for marketing approval for any of our product candidates and may not receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions, including approval by the FDA. The failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions could harm our business. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payers such as health insurance companies and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; -24- Table of Contents • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors and other members of the medical community, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and will depend in large part on our ability to: • obtain patent and other proprietary protection for our technology, processes and product candidates; • defend patents once issued; • preserve trade secrets; and • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. As of December 31, 2010, we owned approximately 16 U.S. patents and 21 U.S. patent applications, as well as the corresponding foreign patents and patent applications, and held exclusive or partially exclusive licenses to approximately eight U.S. patents and two U.S. patent applications, as well as the corresponding foreign patents and patent applications. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by any of our patents, if issued, or our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products and/or duplicate any of our technologies and/or products; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or, if issued, these patents may not be sufficient to protect our technology or provide us with a basis for commercially-viable products and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as infringed, invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable and which may not be adequately protected through trade secrets, if for example a competitor were to independently develop duplicative, similar or alternative technologies. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed in patents or the degree of protection afforded under patents. Although we believe our potential rights under patent applications provide a competitive advantage, it is possible that patent applications owned by or licensed to us will not result in patents being issued, or that, if issued, the patents will not give us an advantage over competitors with similar products or technology, nor can we assure you that we can -25- Table of Contents obtain, maintain and enforce all ownership and other proprietary rights necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Even if any or all of our patent applications issue as patents, others may challenge the validity, inventorship, ownership, enforceability or scope of our patents or other technology used in or otherwise necessary for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. We may not be successful in defending against any such challenges. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents to prevent infringement or to otherwise protect our proprietary rights can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use the challenged technologies without payment to us. There is no assurance that our patents, if issued, will not be infringed or successfully avoided through design innovation. Intellectual property lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if the outcome were successful. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents, if issued, are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of a patent were upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party from using the inventions, including on the ground that its activities do not infringe that patent. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely effected. In addition to the intellectual property and other rights described above, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, trademarks and confidential information, particularly when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or available. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect and it is possible that others will independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality and invention assignment agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. However, it is possible that these agreements will not provide effective protection of our confidential information or, in the event of unauthorized use of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of third parties, provide adequate or effective remedies or protection. If our vaccine technology or our product candidates, including Stimuvax, conflict with the rights of others, we may not be able to manufacture or market our product candidates, which could have a material and adverse effect on us and on our collaboration with Merck KGaA. Issued patents held by others may limit our ability to develop commercial products. All issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity under the laws of the United States. If we need licenses to such patents to permit us to develop or market our product candidates, we may be required to pay significant fees or royalties, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Competitors or third parties may obtain patents that may cover subject matter we use in developing the technology required to bring our products to market, that we use in producing our products, or that we use in treating patients with our products. We know that others have filed patent applications in various jurisdictions that relate to several areas in which we are developing products. Some of these patent applications have already resulted in the issuance of patents and some are still pending. We may be required to alter our processes or product candidates, pay licensing fees or cease activities. Certain parts of our vaccine technology, including the MUC1 antigen, originated from third party sources. These third party sources include academic, government and other research laboratories, as well as the public domain. If use of technology incorporated into or used to produce our -26- Table of Contents product candidates is challenged, or if our processes or product candidates conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us, in Europe, the United States and elsewhere, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from pending applications. In the United States, for example, patent prosecution can proceed in secret prior to issuance of a patent. As a result, third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product candidates which they could attempt to assert against us. Further, as we develop our products, third parties may assert that we infringe the patents currently held or licensed by them and it is difficult to provide the outcome of any such action. There has been significant litigation in the biotechnology industry over patents and other proprietary rights and if we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license, grant cross-licenses and pay substantial royalties in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. There is no assurance that we would prevail in any legal action or that any license required under a third party patent would be made available on acceptable terms or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, as a result of claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any products we develop become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, our ability to successfully commercialize our products will be impaired. Our future revenues, profitability and access to capital will be affected by the continuing efforts of governmental and private third party payers to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. We expect a number of federal, state and foreign proposals to control the cost of drugs through government regulation. We are unsure of the impact recent health care reform legislation may have on our business or what actions federal, state, foreign and private payers may take in response to the recent reforms. Therefore, it is difficult to provide the effect of any implemented reform on our business. Our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend, in part, on the extent to which reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, private health insurers and other organizations. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products, particularly for indications for which there is no current effective treatment or for which medical care typically is not sought. Adequate third party coverage may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product research and development. If adequate coverage and reimbursement levels are not provided by government and third party payors for use of our products, our products may fail to achieve market acceptance and our results of operations will be harmed. Governments often impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our future profitability. We intend to seek approval to market our future products in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. If we obtain approval in one or more foreign jurisdictions, we will be subject to rules and regulations in those jurisdictions relating to our product. In some foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing is subject to government control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities -27- Table of Contents can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a drug candidate. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our future product to other available therapies. In addition, it is unclear what impact, if any, recent health care reform legislation will have on the price of drugs; however, prices may become subject to controls similar to those in other countries. If reimbursement of our future products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials for expenses or losses up to a $10 million aggregate annual limit, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before, or more successfully, than we do. Our future success depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to the design, development and commercialization of our product candidates. We expect any product candidate that we commercialize with our collaborative partners or on our own will compete with existing, market-leading products and products in development. Stimuvax. There are currently two products approved as maintenance therapy following treatment of inoperable locoregional Stage III NSCLC with induction chemotherapy, Tarceva (erlotinib), a targeted small molecule from Genentech, Inc., a member of the Roche Group, and Alimta (pemetrexed), a chemotherapeutic from Eli Lilly and Company. -28- Table of Contents Stimuvax has not been tested in combination with or in comparison to these products. It is possible that other existing or new agents will be approved for this indication. In addition, there are at least three vaccines in development for the treatment of NSCLC, including GSK’s MAGE A3 vaccine in Phase 3, NovaRx Corporation’s Lucanix in Phase 3 and Transgene’s TG-4010 in Phase 2. TG-4010 also targets MUC1, although using technology different from Stimuvax. To our knowledge, these vaccines are not currently being developed in the same indications as Stimuvax. However, subsequent development of these vaccines, including Stimuvax, may result in direct competition. Small Molecule Products. PX-866 is an inhibitor of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K). We are aware of several companies that have entered clinical trials with competing compounds targeting the same protein. Among those are compounds being developed by Novartis (Phase 1/2), Roche/Genentech (Phase 1), Bayer (Phase 1), Semafore (Phase 1), Sanofi-Aventis (Phase 2), Pfizer (Phase 1) and Calistoga (Phase 2). There are also several approved targeted therapies for cancer and in development against which PX-866 might compete. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to: • design and develop products that are superior to other products in the market; • attract qualified scientific, medical, sales and marketing and commercial personnel; • obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our processes and product candidates; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • successfully collaborate with others in the design, development and commercialization of new products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. In addition, any new product that competes with a generic market-leading product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome severe price competition and to be commercially successful. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. If we are unable to enter into agreements with partners to perform sales and marketing functions, or build these functions ourselves, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We currently do not have any internal sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure or enter into agreements with partners to perform these services for us. Under our agreements with Merck KGaA, Merck KGaA is responsible for developing and commercializing Stimuvax, and any problems with that relationship could delay the development and commercialization of Stimuvax. Additionally, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with respect to our product candidates not covered by the Merck KGaA agreements on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our product candidates without entering into arrangements with third parties include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; -29- Table of Contents • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing and distribution infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we lose key personnel, or we are unable to attract and retain highly-qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, it would be more difficult for us to manage our existing business operations and to identify and pursue new growth opportunities. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing, and management personnel. In addition, any difficulties retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt our operations. Future growth will require us to continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, and continue to retain, recruit and train additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense. We are highly dependent on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Furthermore, we have not entered into non-competition agreements with all of our key employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. The loss of the services of existing personnel, the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, and the loss of our employees to our competitors would harm our research and development programs and our business. Our business is subject to increasingly complex environmental legislation that has increased both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. Our business may involve the use of hazardous material, which will require us to comply with environmental regulations. We face increasing complexity in our product development as we adjust to new and upcoming requirements relating to the materials composition of many of our product candidates. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes contamination or injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Environmental regulations could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and our financial position. We maintain insurance under our general liability policy for any liability associated with our hazardous materials activities, and it is possible in the future that our coverage would be insufficient if we incurred a material environmental liability. -30- Table of Contents If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our consolidated operating results, our ability to operate our business, and our stock price. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Failure on our part to have effective internal financial and accounting controls would cause our financial reporting to be unreliable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition, and could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall dramatically. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls that are described in “Item 9A — Controls and Procedures — Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting,” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Remediation of the material weakness was fully completed on March 3, 2011; however, we can provide no assurances that this or other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company will have been detected. In June 2010 we retained outside consultants to assist us with designing and implementing an adequate risk assessment process to identify future complex transactions requiring specialized knowledge to ensure the appropriate accounting for and disclosure of such transactions. In September 2010 and January 2011, we retained personnel with the appropriate technical expertise to assist us in accounting for complex transactions in accordance with U.S. GAAP. We cannot be certain that the actions we are taking to improve our internal controls over financial reporting will be sufficient or that we will be able to implement our planned processes and procedures in a timely manner. In future periods, if the process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act reveals any other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, the correction of any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could require additional remedial measures which could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, we may be unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations and growth. If we are required to redeem the shares of our Class UA preferred stock, our financial condition may be adversely affected. Our certificate of incorporation provides for the mandatory redemption of shares of our Class UA preferred stock if we realize “net profits” in any year. See “Note 8 — Share Capital — Authorized Shares — Class UA preferred stock” of the audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For this purpose, “net -31- Table of Contents profits . . . means the after tax profits determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, where relevant, consistently applied.” The certificate of incorporation does not specify the jurisdiction whose generally accepted accounting principles would apply for the redemption provision. At the time of the original issuance of the shares, we were a corporation organized under the federal laws of Canada, and our principal operations were located in Canada. In addition, the original purchaser and current holder of the Class UA preferred stock is a Canadian entity. In connection with our reincorporation in Delaware, we disclosed that the rights, preferences and privileges of the shares would remain unchanged except as required by Delaware law, and the mandatory redemption provisions were not changed. In addition, the formula for determining the price at which such shares would be redeemed is expressed in Canadian dollars. Although, if challenged, we believe that a Delaware court would determine that “net profits” be interpreted in accordance with Canadian GAAP, we cannot provide assurances that a Delaware court would agree with such interpretation. As a result of the December 2008 Merck KGaA transaction, we recognized on a one-time basis all deferred revenue relating to Stimuvax, under both U.S. GAAP and Canadian GAAP. Under U.S. GAAP this resulted in net income. However, under Canadian GAAP we were required to recognize an impairment on intangible assets which resulted in a net loss for 2008 and therefore do not intend to redeem any shares of Class UA preferred stock in 2009. If in the future we recognize net income under Canadian GAAP, or any successor to such principles, or if the holder of Class UA preferred stock were to challenge, and prevail in a dispute involving, the interpretation of the mandatory redemption provision, we may be required to redeem such shares which would have an adverse effect on our cash position. The maximum aggregate amount that we would be required to pay to redeem such shares is CAN $1.25 million. The holder of the Class UA preferred stock has declined to sign an acknowledgement that Canadian GAAP applies to the redemption provision and has indicated that it believes U.S. GAAP should apply. As of the date of this report, the holder has not initiated a proceeding to challenge this interpretation; however, it may do so. If they do dispute this interpretation, although we believe a Delaware court would agree with the interpretation described above, we can provide no assurances that we would prevail in such a dispute. Further, any dispute regarding this matter, even if we were ultimately successful, could require significant resources which may adversely affect our results of operations. We may expand our business through the acquisition of companies or businesses or in-licensing product candidates that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may in the future seek to expand our products and capabilities by acquiring one or more companies or businesses or in-licensing one or more product candidates. Acquisitions and in-licenses involve numerous risks, including: • substantial cash expenditures; • potentially dilutive issuance of equity securities; • incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, some of which may be difficult or impossible to identify at the time of acquisition; • difficulties in assimilating the operations of the acquired companies; • diverting our management’s attention away from other business concerns; • entering markets in which we have limited or no direct experience; and • potential loss of our key employees or key employees of the acquired companies or businesses. -32- Table of Contents In our recent history, we have not expanded our business through in-licensing and we have completed only one acquisition; therefore, our experience in making acquisitions and in-licensing is limited. We cannot assure you that any acquisition or in-license will result in short-term or long-term benefits to us. We may incorrectly judge the value or worth of an acquired company or business or in-licensed product candidate. In addition, our future success would depend in part on our ability to manage the rapid growth associated with some of these acquisitions and in-licenses. We cannot assure you that we would be able to make the combination of our business with that of acquired businesses or companies or in-licensed product candidates work or be successful. Furthermore, the development or expansion of our business or any acquired business or company or in-licensed product candidate may require a substantial capital investment by us. We may not have these necessary funds or they might not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We may also seek to raise funds by selling shares of our capital stock, which could dilute our current stockholders’ ownership interest, or securities convertible into our capital stock, which could dilute current stockholders’ ownership interest upon conversion. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our common stock may become ineligible for listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market, which would materially adversely affect the liquidity and price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed for trading in the United States on The NASDAQ Global Market. As a result of our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market informing us that we did not comply with continued listing requirements. Although the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 allowed us to regain full compliance with SEC reporting requirements and The NASDAQ Stock Market continued listing requirements, we have in the past and could in the future be unable to meet The NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements. For example, on August 20, 2008 we disclosed that we had received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we did not comply with the requirements for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market because we did not meet the maintenance standard in Marketplace Rule 4450(b)(1)(A) (recodified as Marketplace Rule 5450(b)) that specifies, among other things, that the market value of our common stock be at least $50 million or that our stockholders’ equity was at least $10 million. Although we regained compliance with the stockholders’ equity standard, we have a history of losses and would expect that, absent the completion of a financing or other event that would have a positive impact on our stockholders’ equity, our stockholders’ equity would decline over time. Further, in the past our stock price has traded near, and at times below, the $1.00 minimum bid price required for continued listing on NASDAQ. Although NASDAQ in the past has provided relief from the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement as a result of the recent weakness in the stock market, it may not do so in the future. If we fail to maintain compliance with NASDAQ’s listing standards, and our common stock becomes ineligible for listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market the liquidity and price of our common stock would be adversely affected. If our common stock was delisted, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock would be adversely affected. In addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under U.S. federal securities laws, and we would not be able to allow our employees to exercise their outstanding options, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are delisted in the future from The NASDAQ Global Market, there may be other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by actual or potential collaboration partners, suppliers and employees and the loss of institutional investor interest in our company. -33- Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market prices for and trading volumes of securities of biotechnology companies, including our securities, have been historically volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: • public concern as to the safety of products developed by us or others; • the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical trials by us, our collaborators, our competitors and/or companies that are developing products that are similar to ours (regardless of whether such products are potentially competitive with ours); • technological innovations or new therapeutic products; • governmental regulations; • developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • litigation; • comments by securities analysts; • the issuance of additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, shares of our common stock in connection with financings, acquisitions or otherwise; • the perception that shares of our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market; • the incurrence of debt; • general market conditions in our industry or in the economy as a whole; and • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never paid cash dividends on our common shares and have no present intention to pay any dividends in the future. We are not profitable and do not expect to earn any material revenues for at least several years, if at all. As a result, we intend to use all available cash and liquid assets in the development of our business. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, if any, capital requirements, operating and financial conditions and on such other factors as our board of directors deems relevant. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. -34- Table of Contents We expect that we will seek to raise additional capital in the future; however, such capital may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all, when or as we require additional funding. If we issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities that may be convertible into, or exercisable or exchangeable for, our common stock, our existing stockholders would experience further dilution. We expect that we will seek to raise additional capital from time to time in the future. For example, in July 2010, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Small Cap Biotech Value, Ltd., or “SCBV,” pursuant to which we may sell to SCBV up to 5,090,759 shares of our common stock over a 24-month period, subject to the satisfaction of certain terms and conditions contained in the common stock purchase agreement. Future financings may involve the issuance of debt, equity and/or securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for our equity securities. These financings may not be available to us on reasonable terms or at all when and as we require funding. In addition, until October 13, 2011, the investors in our 2010 private placement have certain rights of first refusal with respect to any equity or equity equivalent securities that we issue. Compliance with the terms of these rights of first refusal could complicate any future financing transactions we pursue. If we are able to consummate such financings, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected and/or the terms of such financings may adversely affect the interests of our existing stockholders. Any failure to obtain additional working capital when required would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition and would be expected to result in a decline in our stock price. Any issuances of our common stock, preferred stock, or securities such as warrants or notes that are convertible into, exercisable or exchangeable for, our capital stock, would have a dilutive effect on the voting and economic interest of our existing stockholders. Further, as a result of the delayed filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, we will be ineligible to register the offer and sale of our securities on Form S-3 by us or resale by others until at least April 1, 2011. We may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. If we sell shares of our common stock under our existing committed equity line financing facility, our existing stockholders will experience immediate dilution and, as a result, our stock price may go down. In July 2010, we entered into a committed equity line financing facility, or financing arrangement, under which we may sell up to $20.0 million of our common stock to SCBV over a 24-month period subject to a maximum of 5,150,680 shares of our common stock, including the 59,921 shares of common stock we issued to SCBV in July 2010 as compensation for their commitment to enter into the financing arrangement. The sale of shares of our common stock pursuant to the financing arrangement will have a dilutive impact on our existing stockholders. SCBV may resell some or all of the shares we issue to them under the financing arrangement and such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly with advances under the financing arrangement. To the extent of any such decline, any subsequent advances would require us to issue a greater number of shares of common stock to SCBV in exchange for each dollar of the advance. Under these circumstances, our existing stockholders would experience greater dilution. Although SCBV is precluded from short sales of shares acquired pursuant to advances under the financing arrangement, the sale of our common stock under the financing arrangement could encourage short sales by third parties, which could contribute to the further decline of our stock price. -35- Table of Contents Our management will have broad discretion over the use of proceeds from the sale of securities to SCBV and may not use such proceeds in ways that increase the value of our stock price. We will have broad discretion over the use of proceeds from the sale of securities to SCBV and we could spend the proceeds in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our common stock. Our failure to apply these funds effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, delay the development of our product candidates and cause the price of our common stock to decline. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of a stockholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights, and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the holders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price or our common stock. We have in the past, and we may at any time in the future, issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock. We expect our quarterly operating results to fluctuate in future periods, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past, and we believe they will continue to do so in the future. Some of these fluctuations may be more pronounced than they were in the past as a result of the issuance by us in May 2009 of warrants to purchase 2,909,244 shares of our common stock and the issuance by us in September 2010 of warrants to purchase 3,182,147 shares of our common stock. These warrants are accounted for as a derivative financial instrument pursuant to the ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and classified as a derivative liability. Accordingly, the fair value of the warrants is recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as a liability, and such fair value is adjusted at each financial reporting date with the adjustment to fair value reflected in our consolidated statement of operations. The fair value of the warrants is determined using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. Fluctuations in the assumptions and factors used in the Black-Scholes model can result in adjustments to the fair value of the warrants reflected on our balance sheet and, therefore, our statement of operations. Due to the classification of such warrants and other factors, quarterly results of operations are difficult to forecast, and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be predictive of future performance. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline regardless of our operating performance. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. -36- Table of Contents 