ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units following the establishment of cash reserves by our general partner and the payment of costs and expenses, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner. In order to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.4375 per unit per quarter, or $1.75 per unit per year, we will require available cash of approximately $9.2 million per quarter, or $36.8 million per year, based on the number of general partner units, common units and subordinated units outstanding at December 31, 2010. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common and subordinated units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the level of our production and coal sales and the amount of revenue we generate; • the level of our operating costs, including reimbursement of expenses to our general partner; • changes in governmental regulation of the mining industry or the electric power industry and the increased costs of complying with those changes; • our ability to obtain, renew and maintain permits on a timely basis; • prevailing economic and market conditions; and • difficulties in collecting our receivables because of credit or financial problems of major customers. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the restrictions contained in our credit agreement and our debt service requirements; • the cost of acquisitions; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our general partner. Because of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay a specific level of cash distributions to our unitholders. Furthermore, the amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record net losses and may be unable to make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Decreases in demand for electricity and changes in coal consumption patterns of U.S. electric power generators could adversely affect our business. Our business is closely linked to domestic demand for electricity and any changes in coal consumption by U.S. electric power generators would likely impact our business over the long term. In 2010 we sold approximately 76.3% of our coal to domestic electric power generators, and we have long-term contracts in place with these electric power generators for a significant portion of our future production. The amount of coal consumed by electric power generation is affected by, among other things: • general economic conditions, particularly those affecting industrial electric power demand, such as the recent downturn in the U.S. economy and financial markets; • indirect competition from alternative fuel sources for power generation, such as natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the location, availability, quality and price of those alternative fuel sources; 25 Table of Contents • environmental and other governmental regulations, including those impacting coal-fired power plants; and • energy conservation efforts and related governmental policies. According to the EIA, total electricity consumption in the United States fell by approximately 3.8% during 2009 compared with 2008, primarily because of the effect of the economic downturn on industrial electricity demand, and U.S. electric generation from coal fell by approximately 11.0% in 2009 compared with 2008. Further decreases in the demand for electricity, such as decreases that could be caused by a worsening of current economic conditions, a prolonged economic recession or other similar events could have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal and on our business over the long term. Changes in the coal industry that affect our customers, such as those caused by decreased electricity demand and increased competition, could also adversely affect our business. Indirect competition from gas-fired plants that are cheaper to construct and easier to permit has the most potential to displace a significant amount of coal-fired generation in the near term, particularly older, less efficient coal-powered generators. In addition, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations could cause coal customers to be uncertain of their coal requirements in future years, which could adversely affect our ability to sell coal to our customers under long-term coal sales contracts. Our long-term coal sales contracts subject us to renewal risks. We sell most of the coal we produce under long-term coal sales contracts, which we define as contracts with initial terms of one year or more. As a result, our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we receive for the coal we sell under these contracts. To the extent we are not successful in renewing, extending or renegotiating our long-term contracts on favorable terms, we may have to accept lower prices for the coal we sell or sell reduced quantities of coal in order to secure new sales contracts for our coal. In addition, we may be adversely affected by extensions of our long-term coal sales contract with AEP if market prices for coal under long-term contracts are low at the time of such extensions or if increases in costs during the term of such extensions are greater than the offsets from our cost pass through and cost adjustment provisions. The current term of our contract with AEP runs through 2012, but it can be extended for two additional three-year terms. For each extension term, the initial contract price will be based upon a market-based price for similar term contracts and will be negotiated at the time of such extension, subject to cost pass through and cost adjustment provisions. The contract also contains option provisions that give AEP the right to purchase additional tons of coal during each extension term at a fixed price. If AEP elects to extend this contract during a period when market prices for coal under similar term contracts are low, then we may be materially and adversely affected if the contract price we are able to negotiate with AEP is lower than our marginal cost of production. Alternatively, we may be materially and adversely affected if our marginal cost of production increases by more than the offsets from our cost pass through and cost adjustment provisions. Prices and quantities under our long-term coal sales contracts are generally based on expectations of future coal prices at the time the contract is entered into, renewed, extended or re-opened. The expectation of future prices for coal depends upon factors beyond our control, including the following: • domestic and foreign supply and demand for coal; • domestic demand for electricity, which tends to follow changes in general economic activity; • domestic and foreign economic conditions; • the price, quantity and quality of other coal available to our customers; • competition for production of electricity from non-coal sources, including the price and availability of alternative fuels and other sources, such as natural gas, fuel oil, nuclear, hydroelectric, wind and solar power, and the effects of technological developments related to these non-coal energy sources; • domestic air emission standards for coal-fired power plants, and the ability of coal-fired power plants to meet these standards by installing scrubbers, purchasing emissions allowances or other means; and • legislative and judicial developments, regulatory changes, or changes in energy policy and energy conservation measures that would adversely affect the coal industry. 26 Table of Contents For more information regarding our long-term coal sales contracts, please read “Item 1. Business — Customers — Long-Term Coal Sales Contracts.” Our inability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine, in a cost-effective manner, coal reserves that possess the quality characteristics our customers desire. Because our reserves decline as we mine our coal, our future profitability depends upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable to replace the reserves we produce. If we fail to acquire or develop sufficient additional reserves to replace the reserves depleted by our production, our existing reserves will eventually be depleted. Competition within the coal industry may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell coal at an acceptable price. We compete for domestic sales with numerous other coal producers in Northern Appalachia and the Illinois Basin and in other coal producing regions of the United States, primarily Central Appalachia and the PRB. The most important factors on which we compete are delivered price (i.e., the cost of coal delivered to the customer, including transportation costs, which are generally paid by our customers either directly or indirectly), coal quality characteristics (primarily heat, sulfur, ash and moisture content) and reliability of supply. Our competitors may have, among other things, greater liquidity, greater access to credit and other financial resources, newer or more efficient equipment, lower cost structures (like our competitors in the PRB), partnerships with transportation companies or more effective risk management policies and procedures. Our failure to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by any of them could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. We derived 73.9% of our revenues from coal sales to our five largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2010 and, as of March 1, 2011, we had long-term coal sales contracts in place with these same customers for 78.8% of our 2011 estimated coal sales. We expect to continue to derive a substantial amount of our total revenues from a small number of customers in the future. However, we may be unsuccessful in renewing long-term coal sales contracts with our largest customers, and those customers may discontinue or reduce purchasing coal from us. If any of our largest customers significantly reduces the quantities of coal it purchases from us and if we are unable to sell such excess coal to our other customers on terms substantially similar to the terms under our current long-term coal sales contracts, our business, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. New regulatory requirements limiting greenhouse gas emissions could adversely affect coal-fired power generation and reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source, which could cause the price and quantity of the coal we sell to decline materially. One major by-product of burning coal is carbon dioxide, which is a greenhouse gas and a source of concern with respect to global warming, also known as climate change. Climate change continues to attract government, public and scientific attention, especially on ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, including from coal-fired power plants. Various international, federal, regional and state regulatory initiatives to limit emissions of greenhouse gases include possible future U.S. treaty commitments, new federal or state legislation that may establish a cap-and-trade, and regulation under existing environmental laws by the EPA. Future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions may require additional controls on, or the closure of, coal-fired power plants and industrial boilers and may restrict the construction of new coal-fired power plants. 27 Table of Contents The permitting of new coal-fired power plants has recently been contested by state regulators and environmental advocacy organizations due to concerns related to greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, a federal appeals courts has allowed a lawsuit pursuing federal common law claims to proceed against certain utilities on the basis that they may have created a public nuisance due to their emissions of carbon dioxide, although the U.S. Supreme Court has granted certiorari to review this decision. A second federal appeals court dismissed such a case on procedural grounds. Future regulation, litigation and permitting related to greenhouse gas emissions may cause some users of coal to switch from coal to a lower-carbon fuel, or otherwise reduce the use of and demand for fossil fuels, particularly coal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For a more detailed discussion of potential climate change impact, please read “Item 1. Business — Mining and Environmental Regulation — Climate Change.” Existing and future regulatory requirements relating to sulfur dioxide and other air emissions could affect our customers and could reduce the demand for the high-sulfur coal we produce and cause coal prices and sales of our high-sulfur coal to decline materially. Coal-fired power plants are subject to extensive environmental regulation, particularly with respect to air emissions. For example, the Clean Air Act, and similar state and local laws and related regulations, place annual limits on emissions of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds, including emissions by electric power generators, which are the largest end-users of our coal. The ability of coal-fired power plants to burn the high-sulfur coal we produce may be limited without the use of costly pollution control devices such as scrubbers, the purchase of emission allowances or the blending of our high-sulfur coal with low-sulfur coal. Projected demand growth for high-sulfur coal in our primary market area is largely dependent on planned installations of scrubbers at new and existing coal-fired power plants that use or plan to use high-sulfur coal as a fuel. The timing and amount of these scrubber installations may be affected by, among other things, anticipated changes in air quality regulations and the price and availability of sulfur dioxide emissions allowances. To the extent that these scrubber installations do not occur or are substantially delayed and sufficient sulfur dioxide allowances are unavailable or are prohibitively expensive, demand for our high-sulfur coal could materially decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. For a more detailed discussion of the regulation of air emissions, please read “Item 1. Business — Mining and Environmental Regulation — Clean Air Act.” Our coal mining operations are subject to operating risks, which could result in materially increased operating expenses and decreased production levels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our coal mining operations are subject to a number of operating risks beyond our control. Because we maintain very limited produced coal inventory, various conditions or events could disrupt operations, adversely affect production and shipments and materially increase the cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines for varying lengths of time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These conditions and events include, among others: • poor mining conditions resulting from geologic, hydrologic or other conditions, which may cause instability of highwalls or spoil-piles or cause damage to nearby infrastructure; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy rains or flooding; • the unavailability of qualified labor and contractors; • the unavailability or increased prices of equipment or other critical supplies such as tires and explosives, fuel, lubricants and other consumables; • fluctuations in transportation costs and transportation delays or interruptions, including those caused by river flooding and lock closures for repairs; • delays, challenges to, and difficulties in acquiring, maintaining or renewing permits or mineral and surface rights; • future health, safety and environmental laws and regulations or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations; • mine accidents or other unforeseen casualty events, including those involving injuries or fatalities; • increased or unexpected reclamation costs; and • the inability to monitor our operations due to failures of information technology systems. 28 Table of Contents If any of the foregoing changes, conditions or events occurs and is not excusable as a force majeure event, any resulting failure on our part to deliver coal to the purchaser under a long-term sales contracts could result in economic penalties, suspension or cancellation of shipments or ultimately termination of the agreement, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for some but not all potential risks we face. We generally do not carry business interruption insurance and we may elect not to carry other types of insurance in the future. In addition, it is not possible to insure fully against safety, pollution and environmental risks. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the future, we may not receive cash distributions from Harrison Resources, and Harrison Resources may not be able to acquire additional reserves on economical terms from CONSOL Energy. In January 2007, we entered into a joint venture, Harrison Resources, with CONSOL Energy. Pursuant to its operating agreement, all members of Harrison Resources must approve cash distributions, other than tax distributions, to its members. The members of Harrison Resources have consistently approved cash distributions from Harrison Resources on a quarterly basis, including an aggregate of $5.9 million in distributions to us during 2010. In the future, however, there can be no assurance that we will receive regular cash distributions from Harrison Resources. CONSOL Energy controls the vast majority of the additional reserves in Harrison County, Ohio that could be acquired by Harrison Resources in the future. However, CONSOL Energy has no obligation to sell those reserves to Harrison Resources, and we cannot assure you that Harrison Resources could acquire those reserves from CONSOL Energy on acceptable terms. As a result, the growth of, and therefore our ability to receive future distributions from, Harrison Resources may be limited, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. A significant portion of our cash available for distribution to our unitholders is derived from royalty payments we receive on our underground coal reserves, which we do not operate. In June 2005, we sold our underground mining operations at the Tusky mining complex to an independent coal producer and subleased our underground coal reserves to this producer in exchange for an overriding royalty equal to a percentage of the sales price received for the coal produced and sold. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we received royalty income on our underground coal reserves of approximately $2.8 million or approximately 5.4% of our adjusted EBITDA. The royalty payments we receive could be adversely affected by any of the following: • a substantial and extended decline in the sales price for coal produced from our underground coal reserves; • any decisions by our sublessee to reduce or discontinue production or sales of coal produced from our underground coal reserves; • any failure by our sublessee to properly manage its operations; • our sublessee’s operational risks relating to our underground coal reserves, which expose our sublessee to operating conditions and events beyond its control, including the inability to acquire necessary permits, changes or variations in geologic conditions, changes in governmental regulation of the coal industry or the electric power industry, mining and processing equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems, interruptions due to transportation delays, adverse weather and natural disasters, labor-related interruptions and fires and explosions; and • a material decline in the creditworthiness of our sublessee, including as a result of the current economic downturn. If the royalty payments we receive from our sublessee are reduced, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. 29 Table of Contents Increases in the cost of diesel fuel and explosives, or the inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of those supplies, could increase our operating expenses, disrupt or delay our production and have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We use considerable quantities of diesel fuel in our mining operations. Even though we hedge a portion of our diesel fuel needs, if the price of diesel fuel increases significantly, our operating expenses will increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. A significant amount of explosives are used in our mining operations. We use third party contractors to provide blasting services, and they generally pass through to us the cost of explosives, which is subject to fluctuations. Additionally, a limited number of suppliers exist for explosives, and any of these suppliers may divert their products to other buyers. Shortages in raw materials used in the manufacturing of explosives or the cancellation of supply contracts under which these raw materials are obtained, could increase the prices and limit the ability of our contractors to obtain these supplies. Extensive environmental laws and regulations impose significant costs on our mining operations, and future laws and regulations could materially increase those costs or limit our ability to produce and sell coal. The coal mining industry is subject to increasingly strict federal, state and local environmental and mining safety laws and regulations. The enforcement of laws and regulations governing the coal mining industry has substantially increased, due in part to recent accidents at certain underground mines. Violations can result in administrative, civil and criminal penalties and a range of other possible sanctions. In April 2010, a fatal mining accident in West Virginia received national attention and led Congress to further increase mine safety disclosure requirements. Additional state and national responses increasing mine safety regulation, reporting requirements, inspection and enforcement, particularly with regard to underground mining operations, are possible. New legislation or administrative regulations or new judicial interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and regulations, including proposals related to the protection of the environment that would further regulate and tax the coal industry, may also require us to change operations significantly or incur increased costs and be subject to more adverse consequences for non-compliance. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be unable to obtain, maintain or renew permits necessary for our operations, which would materially reduce our production, cash flows and profitability. As is typical in the coal industry, our coal production is dependent on our ability to obtain various federal and state permits and approvals to mine our coal reserves within the timeline specified in our surface mining plan. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of these rules, are complex, change frequently, and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, which may increase the costs or possibly preclude the continuance of ongoing mining operations or the development of future mining operations. In addition, the public, including non-governmental organizations, anti-mining groups and individuals, has certain statutory rights to comment upon and otherwise impact the permitting process, including through court intervention. The slowing pace at which necessary permits are issued or renewed for new and existing mines has materially impacted coal production. Permitting by the Corps, the EPA and the Department of the Interior has become subject to enhanced review and stricter enforcement, especially under the CWA, to reduce the harmful environmental consequences of mountain-top mining, especially in Central Appalachia. Based on our current surface mining plan, we have proven and probable coal reserves with active permits that will allow us to mine for approximately three years. Typically, we submit the necessary permit applications 12 to 30 months before we plan to mine a new area. Some of our required mining permits are becoming increasingly difficult to obtain in a timely manner, or at all, and in some instances we have had to abandon or substantially delay the mining of coal in certain areas covered by the application in order to obtain required permits and approvals. We expect that mining permits will be further delayed in the future if the EPA continues its enhanced review of CWA applications. If the required permits are not issued or renewed in a timely fashion or at all, or if permits issued or renewed are conditioned in a manner that restricts our ability to efficiently and economically conduct our mining activities, we could suffer a material reduction in our production and operations, and there could be a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Please read “Item 1. Business — Mining and Environmental Regulation.” 30 Table of Contents If the assumptions underlying our reclamation and mine closure obligations are materially inaccurate, our costs could be significantly greater than anticipated. SMCRA and counterpart state laws and regulations establish reclamation and closure standards for surface mining. As of December 31, 2010, we had accrued a reserve of approximately $13.0 million for future reclamation and mine closure obligations. The estimate of ultimate reclamation obligations is reviewed periodically by our management and engineers. Our estimated reclamation and mine closure obligations could change significantly if actual results change from our assumptions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Please read Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the heading “Asset Retirement Obligations” for more information regarding our reclamation and mine closure obligations. Debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our future level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make interest payments on our debt; • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and • our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all. Restrictions in our credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, ability to make distributions to unitholders and value of our common units. Our credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • make distributions on or redeem or repurchase units; • make certain investments and acquisitions; • incur certain liens or permit them to exist; • enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate with another company; and • transfer or otherwise dispose of assets. Our credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. The provisions of our credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of our debt is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such debt in full, and our unitholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. 31 Table of Contents Our operations may impact the environment or cause environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations use hazardous materials, generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes and may affect runoff or drainage water. In the event of environmental contamination or a release of hazardous materials, we could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages and for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media, as well as abandoned and closed mines located on property we operate. Such claims may arise out of conditions at sites that we currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or operated, or may acquire. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. These and other impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on us. Please read “Item 1. Business — Mining and Environmental Regulation.” We maintain coal refuse areas and slurry impoundments at our Tuscarawas County and Muhlenberg County mining complexes. Such areas and impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. One of those impoundments overlies a mined out area, which can pose a heightened risk of structural failure and of damages arising out of such failure. When a slurry impoundment experiences a structural failure, it could release large volumes of coal slurry into the surrounding environment, which in turn can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water. A failure may also result in civil or criminal fines, penalties, personal injuries and property damages, and damage to wildlife or natural resources. Our ability to operate our business effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key management personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends on the continued contributions of Charles C. Ungurean and other executive officers and key employees of our general partner. In particular, we depend significantly on Mr. Ungurean’s long-standing relationships within our industry. The loss of any of our senior executives, and Mr. Ungurean in particular, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we believe that our future success will depend on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled management personnel with coal industry experience and competition for these persons in the coal industry is intense. We may not be able to continue to employ key personnel or attract and retain qualified personnel in the future, and our failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively operate our business. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could reduce labor productivity and increase costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers in multiple disciplines such as equipment operators, mechanics and engineers, among others. We have from time to time encountered shortages for these types of skilled labor. If we experience shortages of skilled labor in the future, our labor and overall productivity or costs could be materially and adversely affected. If coal prices decrease in the future or our labor prices increase, or if we experience materially increased health and benefit costs with respect to our general partner’s employees, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and materially reduce our profitability. All of our mines are operated by non-union employees of our general partner. Our employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. If our employees choose to form or affiliate with a union and the terms of a union collective bargaining agreement are significantly different from our current compensation and job assignment arrangements with our employees, these arrangements could adversely affect the stability of our production and materially reduce our profitability. 32 Table of Contents Inaccuracies in our estimates of our coal reserves could result in lower than expected revenues or higher than expected costs. Our future performance depends on, among other things, the accuracy of the estimates of our proven and probable coal reserves. There are numerous factors and assumptions inherent in estimating the quantities and qualities of, and costs to mine, coal reserves, any one of which may vary considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions include: • quality of the coal; • geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine; • the percentage of coal ultimately recoverable; • the assumed effects of regulation, including the issuance of required permits, and taxes, including severance and excise taxes and royalties, and other payments to governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning the timing for the development of reserves; and • assumptions concerning equipment and productivity, future coal prices, operating costs, including for critical supplies such as fuel, tires and explosives, capital expenditures and development and reclamation costs. As a result, estimates of the quantities and qualities of economically recoverable coal attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery, estimated cost of production, and estimates of future net cash flows expected from these properties as prepared by different engineers and accounting personnel, or by the same engineers and accounting personnel at different times, may vary materially due to changes in the above factors and assumptions. Actual production recovered from identified reserve areas and properties, and revenues and expenditures associated with our mining operations, may vary materially from estimates. Any inaccuracy in the estimates related to our reserves could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for the coal we sell depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. The current economic volatility and tight credit markets increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payments from our customers. A continuation or worsening of current economic conditions or other prolonged global or U.S. recessions could also impact the creditworthiness of our customers. If the creditworthiness of a customer declines, this would increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payment for all of the coal we sell to that customer. If we determine that a customer is not creditworthy, we may not be required to deliver coal under the customer’s coal sales contract. If we are able to withhold shipments, we may decide to sell the customer’s coal on the spot market, which may be at prices lower than the contract price, or we may be unable to sell the coal at all. Furthermore, the bankruptcy of any of our customers could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk of payment default. In addition, we sell some of our coal to coal brokers who may resell our coal to end users, including utilities. These coal brokers may have only limited assets, making them less creditworthy than the end users. Under some of these arrangements, we have contractual privity only with the brokers and may not be able to pursue claims against the end users in connection with these sales if we do not receive payment from the broker. In 2010, approximately 24% of our sales were through coal brokers. We expect our sales through coal brokers to increase to approximately 31% of our sales in 2011. Failure to obtain, maintain or renew our security arrangements, such as surety bonds or letters of credit, in a timely manner and on acceptable terms could have an adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Federal and state laws require us to secure the performance of certain long-term obligations, such as mine closure or reclamation costs. The amount of these security arrangements is substantial, with total amounts of surety bonds at March 14, 2011 of approximately $35.5 million, which were supported by letters of credit of $6.7 million. Certain business transactions, such as coal leases and other obligations, may also require bonding. Our bonding requirements could increase in the future. We may have difficulty procuring or maintaining our surety bonds. Our bond issuers may demand higher fees, additional collateral, including putting up letters of credit or posting cash collateral, or other terms less favorable to us upon those renewals. Our ability to obtain or renew our surety bonds could be impacted by a variety of other factors including lack of availability, unfavorable market terms, the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety bonds and restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of any credit arrangements then in place. Due to current economic conditions and the volatility of the financial markets, surety bond providers may be less willing to provide us with surety bonds or maintain existing surety bonds and we may have greater difficulty satisfying the liquidity requirements under our existing surety bond contracts. If we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity or have other resources to satisfy our surety and bonding requirements, our operations and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders could be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents The amount of estimated reserve replacement expenditures that our general partner is required to deduct from operating surplus each quarter is based on our current estimates and could increase in the future, resulting in a decrease in available cash from operating surplus that could be distributed to our unitholders. For 2011, we expect to incur between $5.5 million and $6.0 million in reserve replacement expenditures. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus each quarter estimated reserve replacement expenditures as opposed to actual reserve replacement expenditures in order to reduce disparities in operating surplus caused by fluctuating reserve replacement costs. This amount is based on our current estimates of the amounts of expenditures we will be required to make in future years to maintain our depleting reserve base, which we believe to be reasonable. In the future our estimated reserve replacement expenditures may be more than our actual reserve replacement expenditures, which will reduce the amount of available cash from operating surplus that we would otherwise have available for distribution to unitholders. The amount of estimated reserve replacement expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, subject to approval by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner, or the Conflicts Committee. Our management team does not have experience managing our business as a stand-alone publicly traded partnership, and if they are unable to manage our business as a publicly traded partnership our business may be affected. Our management team does not have experience managing our business as a publicly traded partnership. If we are unable to manage and operate our partnership as a publicly traded partnership, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We will be required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we are unable to establish and maintain effective internal controls, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We are in the process of evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to audit, our internal controls over financial reporting. We are also in the process of performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management report and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will be required to comply with Section 404 for the year ending December 31, 2011. However, we cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. Furthermore, upon completion of this process, we may identify control deficiencies of varying degrees of severity under applicable SEC and Public Company Accounting Oversight Board rules and regulations that remain unremediated. We will be required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal controls that, or that are reasonably likely to, materially affect internal controls over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal controls over financial reports that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected. If we fail to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities such as the SEC. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements, and as a result our unit price may be adversely affected. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our consolidated financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets and our unit price may be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to these attacks or acts of war could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity or acts of war may have significant effects on general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending and market liquidity, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business. Future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may significantly affect our operations and those of our customers. Strategic targets, such as energy-related assets and transportation assets, may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. Disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duties. Fiduciary duties owed to our unitholders by our general partner are prescribed by law and the partnership agreement. The Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act, or the Delaware Act, provides that Delaware limited partnerships may, in their partnership agreements, restrict the fiduciary duties owed by the general partner to limited partners and the partnership. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • limits the liability and reduces the fiduciary duties of our general partner, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, our unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its voting rights with respect to the units it owns, its registration rights and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership; • provides that our general partner shall not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in good faith, meaning our general partner honestly believed that the decision was in the best interests of the partnership; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the Conflicts Committee and not involving a vote of our unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us or our limited partners for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder will become bound by the provisions of the partnership agreement, including the provisions described above. 35 Table of Contents Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest with us, and their limited fiduciary duties to our unitholders may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. C&T Coal owns an 18.2% limited partner interest in us, AIM Oxford owns a 35.7% limited partner interest in us, and C&T Coal and AIM Oxford own substantially all of and control our general partner and its 2.0% general partner interest in us. Although our general partner has certain fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our unitholders, the executive officers and directors of our general partner have a fiduciary duty to manage our general partner in a manner beneficial to its owners. Furthermore, since certain executive officers and directors of our general partner are executive officers or directors of affiliates of our general partner, conflicts of interest may arise between C&T Coal and AIM Oxford and their affiliates, including our general partner, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Please read “— Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to our unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.” The risk to our unitholders due to such conflicts may arise because of the following factors, among others: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as C&T Coal and AIM Oxford, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires owners of our general partner to pursue a business strategy that favors us. Executive officers and directors of our general partner’s owners have a fiduciary duty to make these decisions in the best interest of their owners, which may be contrary to our interests; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings and issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner determines our estimated reserve replacement expenditures, which reduce operating surplus, and that determination can affect the amount of cash that is distributed to our unitholders and the ability of the subordinated units to convert to common units; • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination periods; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner intends to limit its liability regarding our contractual and other obligations; • our general partner may exercise its limited right to call and purchase common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the common units; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. In addition, AIM currently holds substantial interests in other companies in the energy and natural resource sectors. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will be restricted from engaging in any business activities other than acting as our general partner and those activities incidental to its ownership interest in us. However, AIM and AIM Oxford are not prohibited from engaging in other businesses or activities, including those that might be in direct competition with us. As a result, they could potentially compete with us for acquisition opportunities and for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by us. Pursuant to the terms of our partnership agreement, the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any analogous doctrine, does not apply to our general partner or any of its affiliates, including its executive officers, directors and owners. Any such person or entity that becomes aware of a potential transaction, agreement, arrangement or other matter that may be an opportunity for us will not have any duty to communicate or offer such opportunity to us. Any such person or entity will not be liable to us or to any limited partner for breach of any fiduciary duty or other duty by reason of the fact that such person or entity pursues or acquires such opportunity for itself, directs such opportunity to another person or entity or does not communicate such opportunity or information to us. This may create actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner and result in less than favorable treatment of us and our unitholders. 36 Table of Contents Our unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our general partner or its directors or initially to remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Our unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen entirely by its members and not by our unitholders. Furthermore, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they have limited ability to remove our general partner. Our unitholders are unable to remove our general partner without its consent because affiliates of our general partner own sufficient units to be able to prevent removal of our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 80.0% of all outstanding common units and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Affiliates of our general partner own 55.4% of our common units and subordinated units. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner during the subordination period because of our unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination period. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of our unitholders. Furthermore, there is no restriction in our partnership agreement on the ability of the members of our general partner to transfer their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions and actions of the board of directors and executive officers of our general partner. The incentive distribution rights of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its incentive distribution rights to a third party at any time without the consent of our unitholders. If our general partner transfers its incentive distribution rights to a third party but retains its general partner interest, our general partner may not have the same incentive to grow our partnership and increase quarterly distributions to unitholders over time as it would if it had retained ownership of its incentive distribution rights. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require our unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. C&T Coal and AIM Oxford own an aggregate of 55.1% of our common units and subordinated units. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80.0% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price. As a result, our unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Our unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its limited call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the common units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. 37 Table of Contents We may issue additional units without unitholder approval, which would dilute unitholder interests. At any time, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Further, our partnership agreement does not prohibit the issuance of equity securities that may effectively rank senior to our common units. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our general partner may, without unitholder approval, elect to cause us to issue common units and general partner units to it in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to its incentive distribution rights. This could result in lower distributions to holders of our common units. Our general partner has the right, at any time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and it has received distributions on its incentive distribution rights at the highest level to which it is entitled (48.0%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial target distribution levels at higher levels based on our distributions at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution will be adjusted to equal the reset minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution. If our general partner elects to reset the target distribution levels, it will be entitled to receive a number of common units and general partner units. The number of common units to be issued to our general partner will be equal to that number of common units that would have entitled their holder to an average aggregate quarterly cash distribution in the prior two quarters equal to the average of the distributions to our general partner on the incentive distribution rights in the prior two quarters. Our general partner will be issued the number of general partner units necessary to maintain our general partner’s interest in us that existed immediately prior to the reset election. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion. It is possible, however, that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or expects to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its incentive distribution rights and may, therefore, desire to be issued common units rather than retain the right to receive distributions on its incentive distribution rights based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience a reduction in the amount of cash distributions that our common unitholders would have otherwise received had we not issued new common units and general partner units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion in accordance with the terms of our partnership agreement. In determining the costs and expenses allocable to us, our general partner is subject to its fiduciary duty, as modified by our partnership agreement, to the limited partners, which requires it to act in good faith. These expenses include all costs incurred by our general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us. We are managed and operated by executive officers and directors of our general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates will reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 38 Table of Contents Our unitholders who fail to furnish certain information requested by our general partner or who our general partner, upon receipt of such information, determines are not eligible citizens are not entitled to receive distributions or allocations of income or loss on their common units and their common units will be subject to redemption. Our general partner may require each limited partner to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or related status. If a limited partner fails to furnish information about his nationality, citizenship or other related status within 30 days after a request for the information or our general partner determines after receipt of the information that the limited partner is not an eligible citizen, the limited partner may be treated as a non-citizen assignee. A non-citizen assignee does not have the right to direct the voting of his units and may not receive distributions in kind upon our liquidation. Furthermore, we have the right to redeem all of the common units and subordinated units of any holder that is not an eligible citizen or fails to furnish the requested information. The redemption price will be paid in cash or by delivery of a promissory note, as determined by our general partner. Our unitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under certain circumstances, our unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under Section 17-607 of the Delaware Act, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that, for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Purchasers of units who become limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser of units at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interests and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, which would subject us to entity-level taxation, then our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35.0%, and would likely pay state and local income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends (to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits), and no income, gains, losses, deductions, or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Therefore, if we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes there would be material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. 39 Table of Contents If we were subjected to a material amount of additional entity-level taxation by individual states, it would reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to you. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress considered substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal income tax laws that would have affected the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws or interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Although we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or any other proposals will ultimately be enacted, any changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Certain federal income tax preferences currently available with respect to coal exploration and development may be eliminated in future legislation. Among the changes contained in President Obama’s Budget Proposal for Fiscal Year 2012, or the Budget Proposal, is the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences relating to coal exploration and development. The Budget Proposal would: (i) eliminate current deductions, the 60-month amortization period and the 10-year amortization period for exploration and development costs relating to coal and other hard mineral fossil fuels, (ii) repeal the percentage depletion allowance with respect to coal properties, (iii) repeal capital gains treatment of coal and lignite royalties and (iv) exclude from the definition of domestic production gross receipts all gross receipts derived from the sale, exchange, or other disposition of coal, other hard mineral fossil fuels or primary products thereof. The passage of any legislation as a result of the Budget Proposal or any other similar changes in U.S. federal income tax laws could eliminate certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to coal exploration and development, and any such change could increase the taxable income allocable to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our unitholders’ share of our income is taxable to them for U.S. federal income tax purposes even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because a unitholder is treated as a partner to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, a unitholder’s allocable share of our taxable income is taxable to it, which may require the payment of federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on its share of our taxable income even if it receives no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take, and the IRS’s positions may ultimately be sustained. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and such positions may not ultimately be sustained. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any IRS contest, may have a materially adverse impact on the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. 40 Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss for federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the common units you sell will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such common units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized on any sale of your common units, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your common units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning our common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult a tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat each purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and because of other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction for U.S. federal income tax purposes between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of those common units. If so, he would no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose common units are loaned to a “short seller” to effect a short sale of common units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned common units, he may no longer be treated for federal income tax purposes as a partner with respect to those common units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those common units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those common units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Our unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to consult a tax advisor to discuss whether it is advisable to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from loaning their common units. 41 Table of Contents We have adopted certain valuation methodologies and monthly conventions for U.S. federal income tax purposes that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and our unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we will determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and our general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of taxable income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and certain of our unitholders. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of taxable gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated our partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if a publicly traded partnership that technically terminated requests publicly traded partnership technical termination relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in jurisdictions where we operate or own or acquire properties. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or control property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We conduct business in Indiana, Kentucky, Ohio, Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Each of these states currently imposes a personal income tax on individuals. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may control assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our common units. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 42 Table of Contents 