D. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider all the information in this Annual Report, including various changing regulatory, competitive, economic, political and social risks and conditions described below, before making an investment in our ordinary shares. One or more of a combination of these risks could materially impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In any such case, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investments. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The sale of SGOCO (Fujian) may not produce the benefits the Company anticipated and it may raise uncertainty about our future direction SGOCO (Fujian) engaged in sales of traditional flat panel LED and LCD monitors and other application specific products. On December 24, 2014, we entered into the Sale of SGOCO (Fujian) to sell our 100% ownership interest in SGOCO (Fujian) to Apex for $11.0 million in total consideration. This transaction was completed on December 31, 2014. Our intension was to reduce the reliance on sales of traditional flat panel LED and LCD monitor products, which enables us to focus on finding new business acquisition opportunities and exploring new products. However, we can neither guarantee the success of the business restructuring nor predict how long will take to complete the business restructuring. We may also not be able to find potential target companies for acquisition or negotiate a favorable terms for potential acquisition. If we failed to do so, we may raise uncertainty about our future direction. Following the Sale of SGOCO (Fujian), we discontinued consolidating the financial statements of SGOCO (Fujian). If SGOCO (Fujian) were to be deemed a variable interest entity under U.S. GAAP, we would be required to consolidate its financial statements with ours. If that occurred, we may lose the benefit of the business transformation, which would substantially change our financial condition. Competition in our industry is intense and, if we are not able to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our financial results will be negatively affected. The LCD/LED products industry in China is highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. Due to the increasing popularity of mobile device, the contraction of personal computer market demand continued and it adversely impacted the market demand of our major products, flat panel LCD and LED monitors. We face competition from distributors and LCD/LED manufacturers that use their extensive brand-name value, manufacturing and marketing size, and in-house sales forces and exclusive sales agents to distribute their products. We compete for customers on the basis of, among other things, our product offerings, customer service and reputation. Some of our competitors have greater financial, research and development, design, marketing, distribution, management or other resources. Our results of operations could be affected by several competitive factors, including entry by new competitors into our current markets, expansion by existing competitors, better marketing and advertising leading to stronger brand equity for our competitors, and competition with other companies for the production capacity of contract manufacturers. Our results of operations and market position may be adversely impacted by these competitive factors. There can be no assurance that our strategies will remain competitive or that we will succeed in the future. Increased competition could result in a loss of market share. In particular, if our competitors adopt aggressive pricing policies, we may be forced to adjust the pricing of our products to improve our competitiveness. This could adversely affect our margins, profitability and financial results. Our industry has experienced declines in the average selling prices of display products irrespective of cyclical fluctuations in the industry, and our margins would be adversely impacted if prices decrease faster than we are able to reduce our costs. The average selling prices of display products have generally declined and are expected to continually decline with time regardless of industry-wide cyclical fluctuations because of, among other factors, technological advancements and cost reductions. We may be able to take advantage of the higher selling prices typically associated with new products and technologies when they are first introduced in the market. But, such prices decline over time and, in certain cases, very rapidly, because of market competition or otherwise. 9 We may not be able to effectively anticipate and counter the price erosion that accompanies our products. In addition, the average selling prices of our display products may decrease faster than the speed at which we are able to reduce our purchasing costs. If those events occur, our gross margins would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We sell most of our products through a few large distributors with whom we do not have long-term agreement, and, accordingly, we may have risks from our level of customer concentration. We derive a significant portion of our sales from several large independent, non-exclusive distributors. For 2014, 2013 and 2012, sales to our top two distributors accounted for 51.7%, 36.5% and 27.4%, respectively, of our total revenue. Following the sale of SGOCO (Fujian), we may lose the sales orders from these large independent, non-exclusive distributors. Our largest customers have generally changed from period-to-period. There were two, two and three customers each with more than 10% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. We are exposed to the credit risks of our customers. Our financial position and profitability is dependent on our customers’ creditworthiness. Thus, we are exposed to our customers’ credit risks, especially for larger orders. There is no assurance that we will not encounter doubtful or bad debts in the future. Due to economic conditions in China, in particular the risk of monetary and fiscal policies to address inflation, businesses in China are generally conserving cash or under increased financial and credit stress. As a result, we could experience slower payments from our customers, an increase in accounts receivable aging and/or an increase in bad debts. If we were to experience any unexpected delay or difficulty in collections from our customers, our cash flows and financial results would be adversely affected. We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate management, sales and marketing personnel, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may limit our development. Our future success significantly depends on our ability to retain the services of our executive management personnel, who have contributed to our prior growth and expansion and also to recruit talented executives to lead new initiatives. The industry experience, entrepreneurial skills and contributions of our executive directors and other members of our senior management are essential to our success. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our senior management team, including our new Chief Executive officer (“CEO”), Mr. Shi-bin Xie, and Vice President of Product Development, Mr. Jin-feng Li, as all of them have extensive knowledge of the PC monitor and TV industry. Our CEO is responsible for the overall corporate strategy, planning and business development of SGOCO. His experience and leadership are critical to our operations and financial performance. If we lose their services and cannot replace them in a timely manner, it would reduce our competitiveness. That would adversely affect our financial condition, operating results and future prospects. We may not be able to generate any growth and our sales may continue to decrease in the future. We expanded our business rapidly during the years between 2006 and 2013. Our revenues, however, dropped significantly in 2014 primarily attributable to our significant reduction in businesses, weak industry growth and increased competition in China’s flat panel display market, which was our primary market. This led to our decision to further restructure our business by disposing SGOCO (Fujian) in December 2014 and reducing our reliance on sales of our flat panel LED/LCD products in future 10 In the future, we may expand either through organic growth or through acquisitions and investments in electronic related businesses. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. We will need to effectively manage future growth, which will entail devising and implementing business plans, training and managing a growing workforce, managing costs and implementing adequate controls and reporting systems in a timely manner. There can be no assurance that our personnel, procedures and controls will be managed effectively to adequately support future growth. Failure to effectively manage expansion would probably prevent us from executing our business plan and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to generate any growth in the future. Accordingly, you should not rely on our historic growth rate as an indicator for our future growth rate. As the majority of our operations are in China, we may face risks related to health problems, including epidemics in China, which could adversely affect our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, other public health problems, or even an epidemic. From time-to-time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia would have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. We depend on product manufacturing provided by outsourcing partners including Honesty Group. The majority of our manufacturing is performed by a few suppliers including Honesty Group and its subsidiaries, which are now independent of the Company. SGOCO has also sourced products from other manufacturers. While these arrangements may lower costs, they also reduce our direct control over production. As a result, it is not certain that the quality or quantity of products or our ability to respond to changing conditions will be the same as it was when SGOCO controlled manufacturing. There are no long-term contracts with the suppliers or manufacturers except for the contract with Apex, described below in Item 4.A., in the Sales and Purchase Agreement for Honesty Group. This contract expired in November 2014 and we are evaluating the renewal. If manufacturers determine not to continue business with us, or if manufacturing by Honesty Group or other suppliers is disrupted for any reason, including extreme weather conditions, landslides, earthquakes, fires, natural catastrophes, raw material supply disruptions, equipment and system failures, labor force shortages, energy shortages, workforce actions, environmental issues, bankruptcy, or change of control, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected due to concentration on a few key manufacturers or finished-goods suppliers. Problems with product quality, including defects, in our LCD/LED products could result in fewer customers and decreased sales, and unexpected expenses. Except for OEM products, our products are mainly designed by our product development teams and are outsourced for production using advanced and often new technology and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products manufactured using advanced and new technology may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced. For example, our LCD/LED products may contain defects that are not detected until after they are shipped or installed, because we cannot test for all possible problems or defects. Such defects could cause us to incur significant re-design costs, divert the attention of our technology personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. In addition, future product failures could cause our suppliers or manufacturers to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Our products, including custom systems, are subject to warranty obligations. Generally, these requirements obligate our outsourced manufacturers to provide a minimum of a one-year repair or replacement obligation. If the product cannot be repaired after two attempts during the one-year warranty period, the manufacturers or suppliers must offer the end-customer a replacement. If we deliver LCD/LED products with errors or defects, or if there is a perception that our LCD/LED products contain errors or defects, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our products would be harmed. Widespread product failures would increase our warranty costs, damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline. Although our warranty obligations to our customers are essentially borne by our manufacturers with a warranty period of one to three years, the product failures could increase the warranty costs to our manufacturers who may then transfer their costs to us and ultimately to end users. 11 SGOCO International has unfulfilled registered capital obligations for its subsidiaries. SGOCO International’s subsidiary, SGOCO Shenzhen, was formed on November 14, 2013, with a registered capital of $5.0 million. Under PRC law, a company’s registered capital is treated as corporate property, and it is each shareholder’s obligation to fulfill its registered capital contribution according to PRC law and the Company’s charter documents. The charter document for each PRC company, which consists of the Company’s articles of association, states the amount of registered capital required to be paid. SGOCO International has the obligation to fulfill the registered capital obligations of SGOCO Shenzhen. Initially, SGOCO International was required to pay $1.0 million and the remaining $4.0 million within 3 months and within two years, respectively, of the date of issuance of the subsidiary’s business license according to PRC registration capital management rules. According to the revised PRC Companies Law which became effective on March 1, 2014, the time requirement of the registered capital contribution has been abolished. As such, SGOCO International has its own discretion to consider the timing of the registered capital contributions. SGOCO International is in the process of amending the charter to adopt the requirement of the revised PRC Companies Law. If it fails to amend the charter or fail to contribute the required capital, it will have to apply for a reduction in the remaining registered capital, which may not be granted. Also, if SGOCO International fails to contribute the registered capital, it may be penalized with fines of 5–15% of the amount of unpaid capital. In addition, in certain cases, the business license for SGOCO Shenzhen may be revoked, preventing them from conducting business in China. If SGOCO International is required to fund the remaining registered capital, it may need to raise external funds. But, there is no assurance that sufficient external funds could be raised to pay the registered capital amount. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, which is a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular 142 requires that RMB converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the Company's business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority. It may not be used for equity investments within the PRC, unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of RMB funds converted from the foreign currency denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. Material advances for finished goods purchases may increase risk of loss resulting from non-delivery of goods by our suppliers. We periodically make prepayments to a few suppliers. Material prepayments we make for finished goods increases our exposure to loss resulting from potential non-delivery of goods by suppliers or refund of prepayments by suppliers. Our market is subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences and we may not be able to predict or meet consumer preferences or demand accurately. We derive a significant amount of revenue from the LCD/LED products that are subject to rapidly changing consumer preferences. Our sales and profits are sensitive to these changing preferences. Our success depends on our ability to identify, originate and define product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. All of our products are subject to changing consumer preferences that we cannot predict with certainty. If we fail to anticipate accurately and respond to trends and shifts in consumer preferences, we could experience lower sales, excess inventories and lower profit margins, any of which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized use of our brand names by third parties may adversely affect our business. We consider our brand names critical to our success. Due to the nature of our business, we do not have administrative protection from patents, copyrights, trademarks or trade secrets covering branding, distributing and marketing of LCD/LED products. Our continued ability to differentiate ourselves from other LCD/LED products distributors and other potential new entrants depends substantially on our ability to preserve the value of our brand names. 12 We rely on trademark law, company brand name protection policies, and agreements with our employees and business partners to protect the value of our brand names. In particular, “SGOCO,” and “POVISON” marks are registered in the PRC and are approved by the State Trademark Bureau of the PRC to be transferred to SGOCO International in Hong Kong. However, there can be no assurance that the measures we take in this regard are adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our brand names. For example, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our brand names in a timely manner because our ability to determine whether other parties have infringed our brand names is generally limited to information from publicly available sources. To preserve the value of our brand names, we may need to take legal actions against third parties. Nonetheless, because the validity, enforceability and scope of trademark protection in the PRC are not certain and still evolving, legal action may not be successful. Further, future litigation could also result in substantially increasing our costs, diverting our resources and disrupting our business. We may not be able to secure financing needed for future operating needs on favorable terms, or on any terms at all. Although we have received most of the proceeds and intercompany payables from Sale of SGOCO (Fujian), we may seek additional financing to provide the capital required for future acquisitions and to expand our business, if cash flow from operations is not sufficient to do so. We cannot predict with certainty the timing or amount of any such capital requirements. If such financing is not available on satisfactory terms, we may not be able to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are able to incur debt, lenders may impose certain restrictions. In addition, repaying such debt may limit our cash flow and our ability to grow. If we are not able to incur debt, we may be forced to issue additional equity, which would have a dilutive effect on our shares. We may not be able to collect the payment of the proceeds from the Sale of SGOCO (Fujian) and settlement of the payables due to the Company. On December 24, 2014, we entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement ("SPA") to sell our 100% ownership interest in SGOCO (Fujian) to Apex for $11.0 million in total consideration ("Sale Equity"). In addition, according to the SPA, Apex agreed to assume the advances and loans due by SGOCO (Fujian) to the Company, that amounted to $80.4 million. As of May 10, 2015, we have received $75.9 million from Apex, and the remaining $15.5 million is due in June 2015 according to the payment schedule of the SPA. Payment of the sales consideration and advances and loans due by SGOCO (Fujian) to us are secured by a pledge of the Sale Equity and the assets of SGOCO (Fujian). In the event that Apex does not make the installment payments, we will have the right to take back ownership of the Sale Equity or force the Apex to liquidate the cash, accounts receivable and advances to suppliers of SGOCO (Fujian) to have sufficient funds to make the payments to us. If Apex does not settle the remaining balance of $15.5 million prior to June 30, 2015, it may adversely affect the expansion and development of our new business. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares and warrants. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: 1.at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income; or 13 2.at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) are attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder of our ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Our actual PFIC status for any taxable year will not be determinable until after the end of such taxable year. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to our status as a PFIC for any taxable year. U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC requirements that provide shareholders the protection of information that must be made available to shareholders of U.S. public companies. We are a foreign private issuer within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: 1.the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; 2.the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations regarding a security registered under the Exchange Act; 3.provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and 4.the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions ( i.e. , a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders will not be provided with the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the U.S. Expansion of our business may increase pressure on our management, which may impede our ability to meet any increased demand for our products and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business plan is to grow our operations profitably and focus on new investments and exploring new products, including but not limited to acquiring equities of potential target companies related to electronic and internet-related businesses and enriching our product range. Growth in our business may place a significant strain on our personnel, management, financial systems and other resources. The evolution of our business also presents numerous risks and challenges, including: 1.customers continuing to accept our LCD/LED products; 2.our ability to successfully and rapidly expand our marketing program to reach potential customers in response to potentially increasing demand; 3.the costs associated with such growth, which are difficult to quantify, but could be significant; 4.the competition from larger, better capitalized and well-known competitors and the effect of rapid technological change; 5.the highly competitive nature of our industry; 6.the continued availability and favorable pricing of the raw materials and components used in our products; and 14 7.the availability and favorable terms of potential acquisition targets for developing new business. If we are successful growing our marketing program, we may be required to provide various support and deliver LCD/LED products to our customers. In addition, we may not be able to meet the needs of our customers, which could adversely affect our relationships with our customers and results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Taxes Law, SGOCO may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in adverse tax consequences to SGOCO and its non-PRC resident shareholders. Under the Enterprise Income Taxes (EIT) Law and the Implementing Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered as a resident enterprise and will be subject to PRC income tax on its global income. According to the Implementing Rules, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” Accordingly, our holding company, SGOCO Group, Ltd., may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to PRC income tax on our global income. The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those invested in by individuals or foreign enterprises like SGOCO. But, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or controlled by or invested in by individuals or foreign enterprises. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, such PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Since the EIT Law became effective in 2008, SGOCO has not been treated as a “resident enterprise.” If the PRC tax authorities determine that SGOCO is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, SGOCO may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on SGOCO’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if both SGOCO and SGOCO International are treated as PRC “resident enterprises,” all dividends from the PRC operating subsidiaries to SGOCO International and from SGOCO International to SGOCO would be exempt from PRC tax. If SGOCO were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that SGOCO receives from its PRC operating subsidiaries (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC): 1.may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, if the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion regarding Taxes on Income (the “PRC-Hong Kong Tax Treaty”) is applicable; or 2.may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax, if such treaty does not apply ( i.e. , because the PRC tax authorities may deem SGOCO International to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits). Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, SGOCO could pay to its shareholders. Finally, the “resident enterprise” classification could result in a 10% PRC tax being imposed on dividends SGOCO pays to its non-PRC shareholders that are not PRC tax “resident enterprises” and gains derived by them from transferring SGOCO’s ordinary shares, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. In such event, SGOCO may be required to withhold the 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to its non-PRC resident shareholders. SGOCO’s non-PRC resident shareholders also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of ordinary shares in certain circumstances. SGOCO would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax regarding such gain. 15 If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC resident shareholder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such shareholder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). According to the Notice of the Provisional Regulation of Non-PRC Residents’ Enjoyment of the Preferential Treatment of Tax Treaty, Circular 124, on August 24, 2009, issued by the State Administration of Taxation, the non-PRC shareholders located in countries which have income tax treaties with China may be taxed at a reduced rate lower than 10%. Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. Intercompany loans from SGOCO to its operating subsidiaries must comply with PRC law. Any loans we make to our Chinese subsidiaries, which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under Chinese law, cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable Chinese law, the Chinese regulators must approve the amount of a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital, which represents shareholders’ equity investments over a defined period of time, and the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which represents the total of the Company’s registered capital plus permitted loans. The ratio of registered capital to total investment cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement and the excess of the total investment over the registered capital represents the maximum amount of borrowings that a foreign invested enterprise is permitted to have under Chinese law. If we lend money to our Chinese subsidiaries and such funds exceed the permitted amount of borrowings of the subsidiary, we would have to apply to the relevant government authorities to increase the permitted total investment amounts. The various applications could be time consuming and their outcomes would be uncertain. Concurrently with the loans, we might have to make capital contributions to the subsidiaries in order to maintain the statutory minimum registered capital/total investment ratio, and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own, as discussed below. Furthermore, even if we make loans to our Chinese subsidiaries that do not exceed their current permitted amount of borrowings, we will have to register each loan with SAFE or its local counterpart within 15 days after signing the relevant loan agreement. Subject to SAFE’s stipulated conditions, SAFE or its local counterpart is supposed to issue a registration certificate of foreign debts within 20 days after reviewing and accepting its application. In practice, it may take longer to complete such SAFE registration process. We cannot be sure that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, regarding future loans by us to our Chinese subsidiaries or affiliated entities or regarding future capital contributions by us to our Chinese subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to use such future loans or capital contributions to capitalize or otherwise fund our Chinese operations may be negatively affected, which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global economy could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The global market and economic conditions during the years 2008 through 2012 were unprecedented and challenging, with recessions occurring in most major economies. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, sovereign debt issues, and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook has negatively affected businesses and consumer confidence and contributed to significant volatility. 16 There is continuing uncertainty over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including China’s. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which may result in significant market volatility. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Any prolonged slowdown in the global and/or Chinese economy may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and continued turbulence in the international markets may adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets to meet liquidity needs. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their respective annual reports. This annual report does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting because we are currently a non-accelerated filer and therefore, not required to obtain such report. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014 were effective. We have in the past and may in the future discover material weakness in our internal controls. For example, we identified material weaknesses related to the lack of sufficient qualified accounting personnel with appropriate understanding of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements commensurate with our financial reporting requirements as described under Item 15 of our annual report in form 20-F for fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, which were subsequently remediated in fiscal year 2013 as described under Item 15 of the 2013 annual report. However, there is no guarantee that these remedies will continue to be effective. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could result in us not being able to accurately report our financial results, prevent or detect fraud or provide timely and reliable financial and other information pursuant to the reporting obligations we have as a public company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. This could reduce investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders, otherwise harm our reputation or negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. We have granted shares to our PRC employees, which may require registration with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to issue equity compensation to our directors and employees and other parties who are PRC citizens or residents under PRC law. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues Concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rules, which replaced the Application Procedures of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Publicly-Listed Companies issued by SAFE in March 2007.Under these rules, PRC residents who participate in stock incentive plan in an overseas publicly-listed company are required to register with SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures. Participants of a stock incentive plan who are PRC residents must retain a qualified PRC agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company or another qualified institution selected by such PRC subsidiary, to conduct the SAFE registration and other procedures with respect to the stock incentive plan on behalf of its participants. Such participants must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options, the purchase and sale of corresponding stocks or interests and fund transfers. In addition, the PRC agent is required to amend the SAFE registration with respect to the stock incentive plan if there is any material change to the stock incentive plan, the PRC agent or the overseas entrusted institution or other material changes. We have adopted an equity compensation plan and have begun to make option grants to some of our key employees, three of whom are PRC citizens. If we or our PRC recipients of such options fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option grantees may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. 17 PRC SAFE Regulations regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undertaken continuous changes which may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could adversely affect our business. Recent regulations promulgated by SAFE regarding offshore financing activities by PRC residents have undergone a number of changes which may increase the administrative burden we face. The failure by our shareholders and affiliates who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations in the form of public notices, which require registrations with, and approval from, SAFE on direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC resident individuals. The SAFE regulations require that if an offshore company directly or indirectly formed by or controlled by PRC resident individuals, known as “SPC,” intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to strict examination by the SAFE. Without registration, the PRC entity cannot remit any of its profits out of the PRC as dividends or otherwise. This could have a material adverse effect on us given that we are a publicly listed company in the U.S. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and adversely affect our competitive position. Our development and sales operations will continue to be focused on and conducted in China, and a substantial portion of our sales will continue to be made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects will be affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: 1.the amount of government involvement; 2.the level of development; 3.the growth rate; 4.the control of foreign exchange; and 5.the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a positive or negative effect on us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises. But, the Chinese government still owns a substantial portion of the productive assets in China. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could adversely affect our business. 18 The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. The Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to reduced demand for our products. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on U.S. judgments against us or our subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors and shareholders. A majority of our assets are located outside of the U.S. and most of our directors and executive officers reside outside of the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the U.S. to effect service of process within the U.S. or elsewhere outside China on us, our subsidiaries, officers, directors and shareholders, and others. This can be particularly important regarding matters arising under U.S. federal or state securities laws. China does not have treaties providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the U.S. and many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of these judgments in relation to any matter, including U.S. securities laws and the laws of the Cayman Islands, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in China against our assets or our subsidiaries, officers, directors, shareholders and advisors only if: 1.the actions are not required to be arbitrated by Chinese law; 2.the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under Chinese law; and 3.the actions satisfy certain prerequisite conditions prescribed by Chinese law. Connected with such an original action, a Chinese court may award civil remedies, including monetary damages. Notwithstanding the ability to bring original actions, we do not believe it is likely that the courts in China would entertain original actions brought in China against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the U.S. or any state or territory within the U.S. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and to the extent their audit clients have operations in China and Hong Kong, is not permitted to be inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm issues the audit report included in this Annual Report filed with the SEC. As auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the U.S., our public accounting firm is registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (the “PCAOB”). It is required by U.S. laws to be regularly inspected by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the U.S. laws and professional standards. Our operations, however, are mainly located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently not able to conduct inspections without the approval of PRC authorities. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and Hong Kong (to the extent their audit clients have operations in China), is currently not subject to inspection by the PCAOB. In May 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by PCAOB, the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance in the United States and the PRC, respectively. PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with the PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. Inspections of some other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures. Certain deficiencies revealed in the inspection process can be addressed to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors operating in China makes it difficult to evaluate our auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures. As a result, our investors may not receive the benefits of the PCAOB inspections. 19 We face uncertainties regarding indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance of the PRC and the SAT jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the SAT issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retrospectively on January 1, 2008. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have strengthened their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. For example, Circular 698 specifies that the SAT is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed by abusing corporate structures for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial intention. We may pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies, and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures. We cannot be assured that the PRC tax authorities will not, at their discretion, adjust the taxable capital gains of the seller, which may indirectly increase acquisition costs. On February 3, 2015, the State Administration of Tax issued a Public Notice Regarding Certain Corporate Income Tax Matters on Indirect Transfer of Properties by Non-Tax Resident Enterprises, or Public Notice 7. Public Notice 7 has introduced a new tax regime that is significantly different from that under Circular 698. Public Notice 7 extends its tax jurisdiction to not only indirect transfers set forth under Circular 698 but also transactions involving transfer of other taxable assets, through the offshore transfer of a foreign intermediate holding company. In addition, Public Notice 7 provides clearer criteria than Circular 698 on how to assess reasonable commercial purposes and has introduced safe harbors for internal group restructurings and the purchase and sale of equity through a public securities market. Public Notice 7 also brings challenges to both the foreign transferor and transferee (or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer) of the taxable assets. Where a non-resident enterprise conducts an “indirect transfer” by transferring the taxable assets indirectly by disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, the non-resident enterprise being the transferor, or the transferee, or the PRC entity which directly owned the taxable assets, may report to the relevant tax authority such indirect transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may re-characterize such indirect transfer as a direct transfer of the equity interests in the PRC tax resident enterprise and other properties in China. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC enterprise income tax, and the transferee or other person who is obligated to pay for the transfer is obligated to withhold the applicable taxes, currently at a rate of up to 10%, for the transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise. Both the transferor and the transferee may be subject to penalties under PRC tax laws if the transferee fails to withhold the taxes and the transferor fails to pay the taxes. We face uncertainties with respect to the reporting and consequences of private equity financing transactions, share exchange or other transactions involving the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises, or sale or purchase of shares in other non-PRC resident companies or other taxable assets by us. Our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group may be subject to filing obligations or being taxed if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferors in such transactions, and may be subject to withholding obligations if our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group are transferees in such transactions, under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7. For the transfer of shares in our company by investors that are non-PRC resident enterprises, our PRC subsidiaries may be requested to assist in the filing under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7. As a result, we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 or to request the relevant transferors from whom we purchase taxable assets to comply with these circulars, or to establish that our company and other non-resident enterprises in our group should not be taxed under these circulars, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the taxable assets transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make adjustments to the taxable income of the transactions under Circular 698 and Public Notice 7, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result, we and our non-resident investors in such transactions may be at risk of being taxed under SAT Circular 698. We have accrued $5.4 million in the income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 on the Sale of Honesty Group and $0.9 million in the income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 on the Sale of SGOCO (Fujian). Both amounts remained unpaid as of the date of this Annual Report. We have already submitted relevant documents to the PRC tax bureau regarding the Sales of Honesty Group and SGOCO (Fujian). We may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with SAT Circular 698. This may have a material adverse effect on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China are evolving and subject to future changes. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also affect our operating costs. Compliance with these requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise adversely affect our future growth. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Uncertainties regarding the Chinese legal system could have a material adverse effect on us. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on statutes. Unlike the common-law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential authority in China. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections provided to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct the majority of our business through our subsidiaries, SGOCO (Fujian), Beijing SGOCO and SGOCO Shenzhen, which were established in China. As a result, we will be subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. But, since the Chinese legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. In addition, enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to file administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we or our subsidiaries enjoy either by law or contract. Chinese administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms. Consequently, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection that we would enjoy compared to more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce contracts or other rights. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may be less effective than in the U.S. or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the Chinese legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of these laws, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our shareholders. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted, substantially increase our costs and divert our resources and management’s attention. If China imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, China’s future economic growth could be curtailed which could adversely affect our business and results of operation. China’s economy has experienced rapid growth. But, this growth has varied among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. To control inflation, the Chinese government may impose controls on bank credit, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in our LCD/LED products leading to a decline in our profitability. Changes in foreign exchange regulations in China may affect our operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends in foreign currency or conduct other foreign exchange business. RMB is not a freely convertible currency currently, and the restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. Dollars. In China, SAFE regulates the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Over the years, foreign exchange regulations in China have significantly reduced the government’s control over routine foreign exchange transactions under current accounts (remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, etc.). 21 Conversion of RMB for capital account items, such as direct investment, loan, security investment and repatriation of investment, is still subject to the approval of the SAFE. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, SGOCO International’s Chinese primary operating subsidiaries, Beijing SGOCO and SGOCO Shenzhen, are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the Chinese government subsequently may restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Fluctuating value of the Renminbi may reduce our profitability. The change in value of the RMB against U.S. Dollars, and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. On March 17, 2014, the People’s Bank of China announced that the RMB exchange rate flexibility increased to 2% in order to proceed further with reform of the RMB exchange rate regime. These could result in a further and more significant floatation in the RMB’s value against the U.S. Dollars. The international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive. But, international pressure continues to be placed on the Chinese government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in significant fluctuation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollars. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. Dollars we receive into RMB for our operations, appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollars would reduce the RMB amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. Dollars to make payments for dividends on our shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. Dollars against the RMB would reduce the U.S. Dollars amount available to us. Exchange controls that exist in China may limit our ability to use our cash flows effectively. Most of our revenues and expenses are denominated in RMB. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends, if any, regarding our shares. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, we are able to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of current account transactions, including payment of dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. But, the Chinese government may take further measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use cash flows for distributing dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we have outside of China. Foreign exchange transactions continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or registration with the Chinese governmental authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if SGOCO International receives foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE. In addition, if we finance SGOCO International by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts. These potential restrictions could affect the ability of SGOCO International to obtain additional foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. 22 Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms could result in adverse impact on our business and price of our stock. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the PRC-based units of five accounting firms. The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ failure to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in the PRC are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”). The issues raised by the proceedings are not specific to our auditors or to us, but affect equally all audit firms based in China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the PRC-based units of the "big four" accounting firms should be barred from practicing before the SEC for six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. In February 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed to the SEC against this decision. In February 2015, each of the four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If the firms do not follow these procedures, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, public companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which may result in SEC’s revocation of the registration of their shares under the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, although our independent registered public accounting firm was not named as a defendant in the above SEC administrative proceedings, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may erode investor confidence in China-based, US public companies, including us, and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Shares We failed to meet continued listing requirements on the NASDAQ Capital Market On February 10, 2015, we received a letter (the "Notification Letter") from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("NASDAQ") notifying the Company that it is not in compliance with the minimum bid price requirement set forth in NASDAQ Rules for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) requires listed securities to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share, and Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) provides that a failure to meet the minimum bid price requirement exists if the deficiency continues for a period of 30 consecutive business days. Based on the closing bid price of the Company's common stock for the 30 consecutive business days from December 22, 2014 to February 9, 2015, the Company no longer meets the minimum bid price requirement. The Notification Letter does not impact our listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market at this time. In accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided 180 calendar days, or until August 10, 2015, to regain compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). To regain compliance, our common stock must have a closing bid price of at least $1.00 for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. In the event we do not regain compliance by August 10, 2015, we may be eligible for additional time to regain compliance. We intend to seek stockholder approval of amendments to our Amended and Restated Articles of Association to effect a reverse stock split. If the proposal is approved by our shareholders, it will be implemented by our board of directors if the board of directors determines that a reverse stock split is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. There can be no assurance that the proposal will be approved by shareholders, or that the proposal, if approved, would be sufficient to permit us to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. If our ordinary shares are delisted from the NASDAQ, such securities may be shifted to the OTC market or the pink sheets. The alternative market, however, is generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as broad as, the NASDAQ. Accordingly, delisting of our ordinary shares from the NASDAQ could have a significant negative effect on the value and liquidity of our securities. In addition, the delisting of such ordinary shares could adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all, and may preclude us from using exemptions from certain state and federal securities regulations, including the SEC’s “penny stock” rules. 23 The market price for our ordinary shares may be volatile. The market price for our ordinary shares is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: 1. actual or anticipated fluctuations in our annual and quarterly operating results and changes or revisions in our expected results; 2. changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; 3. market conditions for LCD/LED products marketing and distribution; 4. changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies specializing in LCD/LED product marketing and distribution; 5. announcements by us and our affiliates or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 6. addition or departure of our senior management and key research and development personnel; 7. fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. Dollars; 8. litigation related to our intellectual property; 9. changes in investors’ perception toward U.S.-listed Chinese companies; 10. release or expiry of transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares; and 11. sales or perceived potential sales of our ordinary shares. In addition, the securities market has from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. Approximately 51.9% of our ordinary shares are held by one shareholder. This voting control may limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. Sun Zone Investments Limited (“Sun Zone”) is owned by our Chairman, Mr. Tin Man Or. It currently owns approximately 51.9% of our voting shares. This shareholder can control substantially all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and the approval of other business transactions. This concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of the Company, which could prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their ordinary shares. We do not expect to pay dividends, so our shareholders will only benefit from an investment in our shares if such shares appreciate in value. Currently, we do not expect to pay dividends to our shareholders. The Board of Directors may determine to pay dividends in the future, depending upon results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, including restrictions in credit agreements, imposed by applicable law, and the laws of China governing dividend payments, currency conversion and loans, and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Accordingly, realizing a gain on shareholders’ investments currently depends on whether the price of our shares appreciates in the securities exchange on which our shares trade. There is no guarantee that our shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which shareholders purchased their shares. 24 Shares to be potentially issued may have an adverse effect on the market price of our shares. As of December 31, 2014, we had 17,414,861 ordinary shares outstanding. There are also issued and outstanding warrants to purchase 13,571 ordinary shares at $6.00 per share to the underwriters of our December 2010 offering. In November 2010, our shareholders approved the adoption of a stock incentive plan that provides for the issuance of stock options, restricted stock or other awards up to 7% of the fully diluted outstanding shares to the employees, directors and consultants of SGOCO and its subsidiaries. In addition, we have authorized capital stock under our charter of 50,000,000 ordinary shares and 1,000,000 preferred shares. Subject to any restrictions under NASDAQ rules, these shares may be issued without shareholder approval. The sale or even the possibility of sale of the foregoing shares could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. Upon the issuance of the additional shares, you would probably experience dilution to your holdings. Due to the lack of unrestricted ordinary shares available to be sold, liquidity for our ordinary shares is limited. As of March 31, 2015, we had 17,594,861 ordinary shares outstanding. Of these shares, approximately 5.6 million ordinary shares are held by persons not affiliated with us currently and are freely eligible to be resold in the public market. The remaining shares are either being held in escrow or are “restricted” securities not eligible to be resold in the public market. As a result of the lack of unrestricted securities available to be resold in the public market, there is limited liquidity in our ordinary shares, which may limit your ability to sell your ordinary shares of SGOCO or reduce the price at which the shares may be sold. In addition, the lack of a liquid market in our shares may make the listed market price of our shares less meaningful and more volatile. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may result in shareholder litigation that could in turn result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. The financial markets in the U.S. and other countries have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Volatility in the price of our ordinary shares may be caused by factors outside of our control, which may not be related or may be disproportionate to our results of operations. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a public company’s securities, shareholders have frequently instituted securities class action litigation against various companies. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny involving U.S. listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and/or defend the matter, which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation. During the last several years, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies. Much of the scrutiny has centered on financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, lacks of effective internal controls over financial reporting and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies that have been the subject of such scrutiny has sharply decreased in value. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and/or SEC enforcement actions that are conducting internal and/or external investigations into the allegations. If we become the subject of any such scrutiny, whether any allegations are true or not, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend the Company. Such investigations or allegations will be costly and time-consuming and distract our management from our normal business and could result in our reputation being harmed. Our stock price could decline because of such allegations, even if the allegations are false. 25 You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through U.S. courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are an exempt company incorporated under Cayman Islands’ laws. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law, Cap. 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) of the Cayman Islands and Cayman Islands’ common law. Shareholders’ rights to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands’ law are largely governed by Cayman Islands’ common law. It is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands and from England’s common law. English court decisions, however, are not binding on a Cayman Islands’ court. Our shareholders’ rights and our directors’ fiduciary responsibilities under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under the statutes or case law in most U.S. jurisdictions. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the U.S. Many U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. The Cayman Islands’ courts are also not likely: 1.to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the U.S. based on civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and 2.to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the U.S., But, the Cayman Islands’ courts will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Based on the above, shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests against actions taken by management, members of the Board of Directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a company incorporated in the U.S. As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, we can adopt certain home country practices regarding corporate governance matters that differ significantly from the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. These practices may provide less protection to shareholders than they would enjoy if we complied fully with the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. As a Cayman Islands company listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, we are subject to the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. But, NASDAQ Stock Market rules permit a foreign private issuer like us to follow the corporate governance practices of its home country. Certain corporate governance practices in the Cayman Islands, which is our home country, may differ significantly from the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards. For example, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands does not require a majority of our directors to be independent. Therefore, we could include non-independent directors as members of our compensation committee and (if we chose to have one) our nominating committee. Finally, our independent directors would not necessarily hold regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. In addition, while NASDAQ Stock Market rules require that an issuer listing common stock hold an annual meeting of shareholders no later than one year after the end of the issuer’s fiscal year-end, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands does not require it. If we choose to follow home country practice, our shareholders may receive less protection than they otherwise would under the NASDAQ Stock Market corporate governance listing standards applicable to U.S. domestic issuers. 26 