Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, and an investment in our common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which we believe are material to our business and could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition and the trading value of our common stock. Other risks factors, not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect our business. In assessing the following risk factors, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The current economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Idaho and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Idaho and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: · loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · we may increase our allowance for loan losses; · demand for our products and services may decline; · collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and · the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to pursue a significant growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets. If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill or core deposit intangible had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us. 47 We are pursuing a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following: · we may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected; · prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future; · the acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal adverse effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful. These risks are present in our recently completed FDIC-assisted transactions; and · to finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. We have completed two acquisitions during the past two fiscal years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future. Although we expect our net interest income will increase following an acquisition, we also expect our general and administrative expenses and consequently our efficiency ratio will also increase, as in the case of our recent acquisitions. Ultimately, we would expect our efficiency ratio to improve; however if we are not successful in our integration process, this may not occur, or may occur at a slower rate than originally anticipated, and our acquisitions may not be accretive to earnings in the short or long-term. We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business. We may have additional opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot give assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with our FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings may be diminished until we can invest the additional liquidity from the acquisition of LibertyBank. The recent acquisition of LibertyBank resulted in a significant increase in cash as a result of the excess of liabilities assumed over assets purchased and the amount of LibertyBank loans retained by the FDIC. We expect that the significant increase in cash balances will result in a decrease in our net interest margin until these additional funds can be invested in loans and securities. This influx of cash and the additional expense burden will keep our earnings below optimal levels until we can generate meaningful loan growth. As a result of the current environment, there is a lack of demand for loans, or a diminished supply of creditworthy lending opportunities, as well as an increase in residential loan refinancing, limits our ability to increase outstanding organic loan balances. Alternative investments 48 are also unattractive as investment securities offer very low yields within management’s credit and interest rate risk tolerances. If we are unable to invest this additional liquidity, our earnings may be adversely affected. We are highly dependent on key individuals and a number of the members of executive and senior management have been with the Company for five years or less. Consistent with our policy of focusing on select growth initiatives we are highly dependent on the continued services of a limited number of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of services of any of these individuals may have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. We believe we have in place qualified individuals and have provided for an orderly transition. Additional changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Moreover, our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our human resources and will require the recruitment of additional middle management personnel. The competition to hire experienced banking professionals is also intense. If we are unable to attract qualified banking professionals, our expansion plans could be delayed or curtailed and our business, financial condition, and profitability may be adversely affected. The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: · actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; · changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; · failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; · speculation in the press or investment community; · strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; · actions by institutional shareholders; · fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; · general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry both domestically and internationally; · proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; · anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or · domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility in recent years. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, or other factors. Market volatility during the past couple of years is unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. 49 Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., The Wall Street Journal prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our increasing percentage of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. We have been increasing, and intend to continue to increase, our origination of commercial and multifamily real estate loans and commercial business loans in the future. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Several of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us and commercial real estate loans tend to have larger balances than one-to-four family residential loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, these loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one-to-four family loans. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of increased levels of residential and commercial loan delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, we have experienced increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued increases in delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate values, which cause our loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated upon purchase a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may 50 experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. Our loan portfolio has a concentration of loans secured by commercial real estate, which is primarily secured by nonowner-occupied investment properties. Continued deterioration in the local economy may result in additional losses on loans. Generally, deterioration in the performance and collectability of a loan secured by owner-occupied real estate can be better monitored than a nonowner-occupied real estate loan as we typically do not have the ability to assess the financial performance of tenants who are leasing from borrowers on investment property loans. We regularly review financial information of borrowers on owner-occupied loans whereas we can typically review only vacancy and rent rolls of tenants of borrowers on nonowner-occupied loans. Vacancies in office, retail and industrial real estate projects are higher than historical levels in the Bank’s markets. Continued deterioration in the general economy may increase vacancies further, which may result in decreased cash flow to our borrowers and further declines in value on foreclosed commercial real estate causing additional provisions for loan and REO losses. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We make land purchase, lot development and real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties and, to a lesser extent, commercial and multifamily real estate projects. We will originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans include single-family tract construction loans for the construction of entry level residential homes. Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the finished project, which is uncertain prior to the project’s completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regard to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. This risk has been compounded by the current slowdown in both the residential and the commercial real estate markets, which has negatively affected real estate values and the ability of our borrowers to liquidate properties or obtain adequate refinancing. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and we may incur a loss. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Commercial business loans include leases to finance the purchase of personal property, business equipment and titled vehicles and construction equipment. All of these financing leases were leases of CELC, the operations of which were assumed by the Bank in the LibertyBank Acquisition, and nearly all of them are covered under a loss share agreement with the FDIC. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We make our commercial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In addition, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower. 51 Our lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial business loans. As with commercial business loans, the collateral securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee’s continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, it is unlikely that the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment will be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital levels could be reduced. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. The weakened housing market may result in a decline in fair value of REO. In recent months we have foreclosed on certain real estate development and commercial real estate loans and have taken possession of several residential subdivision properties as well as single family residential properties. REO is initially recorded at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. Because of the weak housing market and declining property values, we may incur losses to write-down REO to new fair values or losses from the final sale of properties. Moreover, our ability to sell REO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value to quickly liquidate properties. Write-downs on REO or an inability to sell REO properties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are currently subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Idaho Department of Finance, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Reserve Board. Such regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of a bank’s allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. Financial reform legislation, entitled the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), has been enacted by Congress is changing and will continue to change the banking regulatory framework, creating an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation has also resulted in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Any further changes in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, new regulations or legislation or additional deposit insurance premiums could have a material impact on our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws and applicable regulations are subject to frequent change. Any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects. 52 The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and noninterest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act will require publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new consumer financial protection bureau that has the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this bureau could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. The Dodd-Frank Act eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on our competitors’ responses, this change could materially increase our interest expense. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial impact on us. However, compliance with this law and its implementing regulations is expected to result in additional operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Continued deterioration in the financial position of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may result in future impairment losses of our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock. At September 30, 2011, we owned $17.7 million of stock of the FHLB of Seattle. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and is subject to impairment testing. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the FHFA), its primary regulator, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, continued deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, in October 2010, the FHLB received a consent order from the FHFA. Management has reviewed the impact of this consent order, and continues to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (FRB) and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. These factors include, among others, a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to 53 liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Idaho or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If that happens, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. The United States economy remains weak and unemployment levels are high. A prolonged recession, especially one affecting our geographic market area, will adversely affect our business and financial results. The United States experienced a severe economic recession beginning in 2008, which effects have continued through 2011. Recent growth has been slow and unemployment remains at very high levels and is not expected to improve in the near future. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many financial institutions reflecting, in part, the weak United States economy and high unemployment rates. In addition, the value of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages has declined and may continue to decline, increasing the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers default on their loans. Continued negative developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the market for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Continued declines in both the volume of real estate sales and the sale price coupled with the current recession and the associated increase in unemployment may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies or problem assets, a decline in demand for our products and services, or lack of growth or a decrease in deposits. These potential negative events may cause us to incur losses, adversely affect our capital, liquidity, financial condition and business operations. These declines may have a greater affect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of financial institutions whose loan portfolios are more diversified. Moreover, continued declines in the stock market in general, or stock values of financial institutions and their holding companies specifically, could adversely affect our stock performance. Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums and/or special assessments will adversely impact our earnings. Due to the costs of resolving the increasing numbers of bank failures in 2008 and 2009, on May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule levying a five basis point special insurance premium assessment on each insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. Any further special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period. In addition, the FDIC increased the general assessment rate and, therefore, our federal deposit general insurance premium expense will increase compared to prior periods. The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which all insured depository institutions were required to prepay on December 30, 2009 their estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. The assessment rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010 was based on each institution’s total base assessment rate for the third quarter of 2009, modified to assume that the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009 had been in effect for the entire third quarter, and the assessment rate for 2011 and 2012 would be equal to the modified third quarter assessment rate plus an additional three basis points. In addition, each institution’s base assessment rate for each period was calculated using its third quarter assessment base, adjusted quarterly for an estimated 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base through the end of 2012. In the event that the special assessment and the prepayment do not provide sufficient funds for the FDIC to resolve future bank failures, the FDIC may require another special assessment or increase assessment rates for all FDIC insured institutions. An increase in assessments will adversely affect our results of operations. 54 Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of its business. In the current economic environment the Bank’s involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims in order to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Act) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management’s assessment of the 55 effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Failure to comply with the terms of the loss share agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. In connection with the CFB and LibertyBank Acquisitions, Home Federal Bank entered in to loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that significantly reduces the Bank’s credit loss exposure. Losses on covered assets in the CFB Acquisition are indemnified by the FDIC at the rate of 80% on the first $34 million of losses and at a rate of 95% after that. Losses on covered assets in the LibertyBank Acquisition are indemnified by the FDIC at a rate of 80%. The purchase and assumption agreements and the loss sharing agreements for the Community First Bank and LibertyBank Acquisitions have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and REO under the requirements of the loss sharing agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 