D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history may not provide an adequate basis to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We began our business operations in August 2005. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects. It is also difficult to evaluate the viability of our air travel advertising network because we do not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies using new forms of advertising media and entering new and rapidly evolving markets. Certain members of our senior management team have worked together for only a relatively short period of time and it may be difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness, on an individual or collective basis, and ability to address future challenges to our business. Given our limited operating history, we may not be able to: • preserve our market position in the air travel advertising market in China; • manage our relationships with airports and airlines to retain existing concession rights contracts and obtain new concession rights contracts to operate digital and other media platforms in leading airports and on airlines on commercially advantageous terms or at all; • retain and acquire advertising clients; • manage our relationships with third-party non-advertising content providers; 8 Table of Contents • secure a sufficient amount of low-cost digital frames and digital TV screens from our suppliers; • manage our expanding operations, including the integration of any past and future acquisitions; • increase and diversify our revenue sources by successfully expanding into other advertising media platforms, including traditional media platforms in leading airports; • respond to competitive market conditions; • respond to changes in the PRC regulatory regime; • maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses; or • attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If advertisers or the viewing public do not accept, or lose interest in, our air travel advertising network, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from our operating activities and our prospects and results of operations could be negatively affected. The market for air travel advertising network in China is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. We compete for advertising spending with many forms of more established advertising media, such as television, print media, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising. Our success depends on the acceptance of our air travel advertising network by advertising clients and agencies and their continuing and increased interest in this medium as a component of their advertising strategies. Our success also depends on the viewing public continuing to be receptive towards our media network. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that consumers are not receptive to our network or that our network does not provide sufficient value as an effective advertising medium. Likewise, if consumers find some element of our network to be disruptive or intrusive, airports and airplane companies may decide not to allow us to operate our air travel advertising network in airports or place our programs on airplanes and advertisers may view our network as a less attractive advertising medium compared to other alternatives. In that event, advertisers may determine to reduce their spending on our network and air travel advertising. Air travel advertising is a relatively new concept in China and in the advertising industry generally. If we are not able to adequately track air traveler responses to our programs, in particular tracking the demographics of air travelers most receptive to air travel advertising, we will not be able to provide sufficient feedback and data to existing and potential advertising clients to help us generate demand and determine pricing. Without improved market research, advertising clients may reduce their use of air travel advertising and instead turn to more traditional forms of advertising that have more established and proven methods of tracking effectiveness. If a substantial number of advertisers lose interest in advertising on our media network for these or other reasons or become unwilling to purchase advertising time slots on our network, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to operate our business, and our revenues, prospects and results of operations could be negatively affected. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, in the United States and other parts of the world. This global economic and financial market crisis has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs, the volatility of which has increased as a result of the disruptions in the financial 9 Table of Contents markets. It may also impair our ability to raise funds through capital market transactions or enter into other financial arrangements if and when additional funds become necessary for our operations. We believe many of our advertisers have also been affected by the current economic turmoil. Current or potential advertisers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund advertising purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which would lead to reduced demand for our advertising services, reduced gross margins, and increased delays of payments of accounts receivable or defaults of payments. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given our fixed concession fee costs associated with our operations. Therefore, the global economic and financial market crisis could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, the timing and nature of any recovery in the economic and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the provision of air travel advertising services. Recent slowdown in the air travel advertising industry in China may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Substantially all of our historical revenues and expected future revenues have been and will be generated from the provision of air travel advertising services, in particular through the display of advertisements on digital frames located in airports and digital TV screens located in airports and on airplanes. Our other types of advertising media platforms, such as billboards and painted advertisement on gate bridges, light box displays and shuttle bus displays are also located in or near airports. We plan to expand into additional media platforms with a focus on increasing our market share in traditional media in the air travel sector. As the air travel advertising industry in China has been adversely affected by the recent economic slowdown, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to carry out our operations as specified in existing concession rights contracts, retain existing concession rights contracts or obtain new concession rights contracts on commercially advantageous terms, we may be unable to maintain or expand our network coverage and our costs may increase significantly in the future. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely upon our ability to provide a large air travel advertising network to display our clients’ advertisements. This, in turn, requires that we retain existing concession rights contracts and obtain new concession rights contracts to operate in airports and on airlines. As of March 1, 2009, we had concession rights to place and operate our digital frames in 26 airports and digital TV screens in 51 airports and to place our programs on the digital TV screens of 10 airlines. As of March 1, 2009, we operated at 22 airports out of the 26 airports and 41 out of the 51 airports where we had obtained contractual concession rights to operate our digital frames and digital TV screens, respectively. As of March 1, 2009, we had concession rights to place advertisements on gate bridges located in 10 major airports. We may roll out our operations of digital frames in the additional four airports and our operations of digital TV screens in the additional 10 airports where we have concession rights in the future. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to carry out our operations in these airports as specified in the concession rights contracts. A majority of our concession rights contracts to operate in airports and on airlines have terms ranging from three to five years without any automatic renewal provisions. As of December 31, 2008, 43 out of 104 and 9 out of 13 of our concession rights contracts to operate in airports and on airlines, respectively, would be subject to renewal by the end of 2010. The concession fees that we incur under our concession rights contracts comprise a significant portion of our cost of revenues and accounted for approximately 37.7%, 28.8% and 38.3% of our net revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. As of March 31, 2009, we were contractually obligated to pay in aggregate US$315.7 million under our concession rights contracts through the year 2015. Airports and airlines tend to increase concession fees over time. As some of our concession rights contracts will terminate in the next several years, we may experience a significant increase in our costs of revenues. If we are unable to pass increased concession costs on to our advertising clients through rate increases, our operating margins and earnings could decrease and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2008, 57 out of 104 and 11 out of 13 of our concession rights contracts to operate in airports and on airlines, respectively, contained provisions granting us certain exclusive 10 Table of Contents concession rights. The scope of the exclusivity, however, varies from contract to contract. Most of these exclusivity provisions limit the scope of our exclusivity to the operation of digital frames and digital TV screens in specific areas of an airport or to certain types of programs on airplanes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain these contracts, with or without exclusivity provisions, upon their expiration. If we were to lose exclusivity, in particular with the major airports and leading airlines, we may lose market share if our customers decide to place their advertisements on any competing digital frames or digital TV screens or otherwise decrease their spending on our network. Furthermore, certain concession rights contracts contain provisions allowing the airports to terminate the contracts unilaterally without any compensation due to governmental policy reasons or the restructuring or reorganization of the airports. We cannot assure you that our concession rights contracts will not be terminated, whether with or without justification. In addition, most of our concession rights contracts were entered into with the advertising companies operated by or advertising agencies hired by airports or airline companies, and not with the airports or airline companies directly. Although these advertising companies and agents have generally assured us in writing that they have the rights to operate advertising media in airports or on airplanes and all of them have performed their contractual obligations, we cannot assure you that airports or airline companies will not challenge or revoke the contractual concession rights granted to us by their advertising companies or agents. If any airport or airline company challenges or revokes the concession rights granted to us under the relevant contracts, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We plan to renew our existing concession rights contracts and enter into new concession rights contracts for operating our air travel advertising network in airports and on airlines. There is no assurance that we will be able to retain our concession rights contracts or obtain new concession rights contracts for our digital frames and digital TV screens or programs on exclusive or commercially viable terms, or at all. If we fail to retain our concession rights contracts to operate in major airports or on key airlines, or retain exclusivity, if a significant number of our existing concession rights contracts are terminated or not renewed, or if we are unable to effectively expand our network by obtaining new concession rights contracts, advertisers may find advertising on our network unattractive and may not wish to purchase advertising time slots on our network, which would cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from the five largest airports and three largest airlines in China. If any of these airports or airlines experiences a material business disruption, we would likely incur substantial losses of revenues. We derived 55.8% of our total revenues in 2008 from the five largest airports in China: Beijing Capital International Airport, Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport, Shanghai Pudong International Airport, Shanghai Hongqiao Airport and Shenzhen International Airport. A material business disruption, major construction or renovation, or a natural disaster affecting any of these airports in our network could render our advertising media in such airport inoperative or materially limit the locations where we can place our digital frames, digital TV screens and other air travel advertising media. In addition, we derived 12.8% of our advertising revenues in 2008 from the three largest domestic airlines in China: China Southern Airlines, China Eastern Airlines and Air China. If any of these airlines loses market share and we are not able to add other airlines or increase the revenues generated from existing airlines in our network, our advertising clients may decide to spend less on our advertising network. We expect these five airports and three airlines to continue to contribute a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. If there were a material business disruption in any of these airports or airlines, we would likely incur substantial losses of revenues. We depend on third-party program producers to provide the non-advertising content that we include in our programs. Failure to obtain high-quality content on commercially reasonable terms could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network, harm our reputation and cause our revenues to decline. The programs on the majority of our digital TV screens include a mix of advertising and non-advertising content. Substantially all of the non-advertising content played over our network is provided by third-party content providers such as China International TV Corporation and various local television stations and television production companies. 11 Table of Contents There is no assurance that we will be able to renew these contracts or obtain non-advertising content on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, some of the third-party content providers that currently do not charge us for their content may do so in the future. To make our programs more attractive, we must continue to secure contracts with these and other third-party content providers. If we fail to obtain a sufficient amount of high-quality content on a cost-effective basis, advertisers may find advertising on our network unattractive and may not wish to purchase advertising time slots on our network, which would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from our advertising time slots and cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. If we are unable to attract advertisers to purchase advertising time on our network, we will be unable to maintain or increase our advertising fees, which could negatively affect our ability to grow our profits. The fees we charge advertising clients and agencies for advertisements on our network depend on the size and quality of our network and the demand by advertisers for advertising time on our network. We believe advertisers choose to advertise on our network in part based on the size of our network, the desirability of the locations where we have placed our digital frames and digital TV screens and the attractiveness of our network content. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of our displays, solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality air travel advertising provider, or obtain high-quality non-advertising content at commercially reasonable prices, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our network or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to grow our profits. We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. For the period from August 7, 2005, the date we commenced operations, to December 31, 2005, we incurred a net loss of US$2.4 million. We incurred a net loss of US$5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. We pay concession fees to airports for placing and operating our digital displays and to airlines for placing our programs on their digital TV screens. These fees constitute a significant portion of our cost of revenues and accounted for approximately 37.7%, 28.8% and 38.3% of our net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Most of the concession fees are fixed under the concession rights contracts with an escalation clause and payments are usually due three or six months in advance. However, our revenues may fluctuate significantly from period to period for various reasons. If our revenues decrease in a given period, we may be unable to reduce our cost of revenues as a significant portion of our cost of revenues is fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and result in a net loss in the period. When our current advertising network of digital frames and digital TV screens reaches saturation in the major airports and airlines where we operate, we may be unable to offer additional time slots to satisfy all of our advertisers’ needs, which could hamper our ability to generate higher levels of revenues and profitability over time. When our network of digital frames and digital TV screens reaches saturation in any particular airport or airline, we may be unable to offer additional advertising time slots to satisfy all of our advertisers’ needs. We would need to increase our advertising rates for advertising in such airports or airlines in order to increase our revenues. However, advertisers may be unwilling to accept rate increases, which could hamper our ability to generate higher levels of revenues over time. In particular, the utilization rates of our advertising time slots in the five largest airports and on the three largest airlines are higher than those in other network airports or airlines and saturation of digital frames and digital TV screens in these airports or airlines could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. Our strategy of expanding our air travel advertising network by building new media platforms and expanding into traditional media may not succeed, and our failure to do so could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network and harm our business, reputation and results of operations. In 2008, our air travel advertising network primarily consisted of standard digital frames and digital TV screens. Our growth strategy includes broadening our service offerings by continuing to increase our digital media network coverage and expanding into traditional media to become a comprehensive air travel advertising provider in China. 12 Table of Contents In particular, we have significantly expanded our digital frame platform by upgrading our light box displays to digital frames and installing new digital frames. As of March 1, 2009, we operated 2,428 digital frames in 22 airports. We intend to significantly increase the number of our digital frames in the near future. We could incur significant costs in installing new digital frames or in upgrading our light box displays to digital frame displays. In addition, our growth strategy includes expanding into the traditional air travel advertising market to provide a broader range of advertising opportunities to our clients and to become a one-stop provider for air travel advertising. We have taken the initial steps by expanding our air travel advertising network to cover the advertising business on gate bridges in airports and diversifying our media resources to include billboards and painted advertisements. In March 2009, we obtained the contractual concession rights to operate various traditional advertising media including billboards, light boxes and other formats in Beijing Capital International Airport and light boxes in Shenzhen International Airport. The majority of our concession rights contracts containing exclusive concession rights only grant us exclusivity with respect to digital frames and digital TV screens. By entering and expanding into traditional advertising media platforms, we may face competition from other companies that are already in these areas. We also have limited experience working in these areas. It is uncertain how these businesses will perform, and there is the risk that they may not succeed at all. Our failure to expand our air travel advertising network to introduce new platforms and into new areas could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network and harm our business, reputation and results of operations. If advertising registration certificates are not obtained for our airport advertising operations where such registration certificates are deemed to be required, we may be subject to administrative sanctions, including the discontinuation of our advertisements at airports where the required advertising registration is not obtained. On May 22, 2006, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, amended the Provisions on the Registration Administration of Outdoor Advertisements, or the new outdoor advertisement provisions. Pursuant to the new outdoor advertisement provisions, advertisements placed inside or outside of the “departure halls” of airports are treated as outdoor advertisements and must be registered in accordance with the local SAIC by “advertising distributors.” However, the terms “advertising distributors” and “departure halls” are not defined under the new outdoor advertisement provisions or other PRC laws and regulations. To ensure that our airport operations comply with the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we are in the process of making inquiries with the local SAICs in the cities in which we have operations or intend to operate with respect to the application for an advertising registration certificate. However, the local SAICs with whom we consulted have expressed different views on whether the advertisements shown on our digital frames and digital TV screens would be regarded as outdoor advertisements and how to register those advertisements. As of the date of this annual report, only Shanghai and Beijing SAICs have accepted our application and issued the outdoor advertising registration certificates. Some local SAICs need more time to consider the implementation of the new outdoor advertising provisions. Other SAICs do not require us to register our advertisements. We intend to register with the relevant SAICs if we are required to do so, but we cannot assure you that we will obtain any applicable registration certificates in compliance with the new outdoor advertisement provisions, or at all. If a required registration is not obtained, the relevant local SAICs may require us to forfeit our advertising income and may impose administrative fines of up to RMB30,000 on us. They may also require us to discontinue advertisements at airports where the required advertising registration is not obtained, which may result in a breach of one or more of our agreements with our advertising clients and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to obtain approvals for including non-advertising content in our programs, we may be unable to continue to include such non-advertising content in our programs, which may cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. A majority of the digital frames and digital TV screens in our network include programs that consist of both advertising content and non-advertising content. On December 6, 2007, the State Administration of Radio, Film or Television, or the SARFT, issued the Circular regarding Strengthening the Management of Public Audio-Video in Automobiles, Buildings and Other Public Areas, or the SARFT Circular. According to 13 Table of Contents the SARFT Circular, displaying audio-video programs such as television news, films and television shows, sports, technology and entertainment through public audio-video systems located in automobiles, buildings, airports, bus or train stations, shops, banks and hospitals and other outdoor public systems must be approved by the SARFT. The relevant authority in China has not promulgated any implementation rules on the procedure of applying for the requisite approval pursuant to the SARFT Circular. We intend to obtain such approval for our non-advertising content, but we cannot assure you that we will obtain such approval in compliance with this new SARFT Circular, or at all. If the requisite approval is not obtained, we will be required to eliminate non-advertising content from the programs displayed on our digital frames and digital TV screens and advertisers may find our network less attractive and be unwilling to purchase advertising time slots on our network, which may cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. Because we rely on third-party agencies to help source advertising clients, our failure to retain key third-party agencies or attract additional agencies on favorable terms could materially and adversely affect our revenue growth. We engage third-party agencies to help source advertising clients from time to time. We do not have long-term or exclusive agreements with these agencies, including our key third-party agencies, and cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relationships with them. If we fail to retain key third-party agencies or attract additional agencies, we may not be able to retain existing advertising clients or attract new advertisers or advertising agency clients and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, the fees that we paid to these third-party agencies constituted a significant portion of our net revenues in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008—13.2%,17.2% and 15.2%, respectively. It is important therefore for us to maintain favorable commercial terms with these third-party agencies. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence may reoccur in the future, which would make us more vulnerable to the loss of major customers or delays in payments from these customers. A small number of customers historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top five customers collectively accounted for approximately 27.5%, 25.2% and 21.7% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Our largest customers have changed from year to year primarily as a result of our limited operating history and rapid growth, broadened customer base and increased sales. No single advertising client accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, and we do not expect to be as dependent on a small number of customers in the future. Given our limited operating history and the rapid growth of our industry, we cannot assure you that we will not once again be dependent on a small number of customers in the future. If we fail to sell our services to one or more of our major customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases less of our services, fails to purchase additional advertising time on our network or cancels some or all of its purchase orders, our revenues could decline and our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, the dependence on a small number of customers could leave us more vulnerable to delays in payments from these customers. We are required under certain of our concession rights contracts to make prepayments. Although we do receive some prepayments from customers, there is typically a lag between the time of our prepayment of concession fees and the time that we receive payments from our customers. As our business expands and revenues grow, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increase in our accounts receivable. Our accounts receivable increased from US$13.5 million as of December 31, 2007 to US$38.4 million as of December 31, 2008. If our major customers are significantly delinquent with their payments, our financial conditions and liquidity may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues, which may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and revenues. The market for air travel advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends and the technological needs of both advertisers and consumers, which may require us to develop new formats, features and enhancements for our advertising network. 14 Table of Contents We must be able to quickly and cost-effectively expand into additional advertising media and platforms beyond digital frames and digital TV screens if advertisers find these other media and platforms to be more attractive and cost-effective. In addition, as the advertising industry is highly competitive and fragmented with many advertising agencies exiting and emerging, we must closely monitor the trends in the advertising agency community. We must maintain strong relationships with leading advertising agencies to make certain that we are reaching the leading advertisers and are responsive to the needs of both the advertising agencies and the advertisers. We currently play advertisements on digital frames through wireless network and on digital TV screens in our network airports through closed-circuit television systems and we currently play advertisements on our network airplanes mostly through video tapes. We may be required to incur development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new technology needs but we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund and implement future technological innovations or to replace obsolete technology. Furthermore, we may fail to respond to these changing technology needs. For example, if the use of broadband networking capabilities on our advertising network becomes a commercially viable alternative, and we fail to implement such changes on our network or fail to do so in a timely manner, our competitors or future entrants into the market who take advantage of such initiatives could gain a competitive advantage over us. If we cannot succeed in defining, developing and introducing new formats, features and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, advertising demand for our advertising network may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business prospects and revenues. We face significant competition in the PRC advertising industry, and if we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in the PRC advertising industry. We compete for advertising clients primarily on the basis of network size and coverage, location, price, the quality of our programs, the range of services that we offer and brand recognition. We compete for overall advertising spending with other alternative advertising media companies, such as Internet, street furniture, billboard and public transport advertising companies, and with traditional advertising media, such as newspapers, television, magazines and radio. We also compete for advertising dollars spent in the air travel advertising industry. While we have a large market share of the digital frames and digital TV screens located in airports and airplanes, we compete, and will compete, with other media platforms of advertising, for which we do not have exclusivity, including billboards, light boxes and print media. In addition, we may also face competition from new entrants into air travel advertising in the future. Significant competition could reduce our operating margins and profitability and result in a loss of market share. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as significantly greater brand recognition, financial, marketing or other resources and may be able to mimic and adopt our business model. In addition, several of our competitors have significantly larger advertising networks than we do, which gives them an ability to reach a larger number of overall potential consumers and which may make them less susceptible to downturns in particular sectors, such as air travel. Moreover, significant competition will provide advertisers with a wider range of media and advertising service alternatives, which could lead to lower prices and decreased revenues, gross margins and profits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the demand for air travel, which is affected by, among other things, seasonality, general economic conditions, terrorist attacks, security measures and plane crashes, and a decrease in the demand for air travel may make it difficult for us to sell our advertising time slots. Our results of operations are directly linked to the fortunes of the air travel industry. Demand for air travel fluctuates significantly from period to period, is subject to seasonality due to holiday travel and weather conditions, and is particularly susceptible to downturns in the economy. In addition, among other things, terrorist attacks, or the fear of such attacks, additional security measures, plane crashes and significant and persistent air travel delays could lead to a reduction in the growth of the air travel industry in China. 15 Table of Contents Business travel is one of the primary drivers of the air travel industry. In times of economic growth, air travel tends to increase. Conversely, in times of economic slowdown, air travel tends to decrease significantly. In light of the recent economic downturn, overall air passengers in China have decreased, which may cause advertisers to reduce their spending on our air travel advertising network. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S. involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the air travel industry in the U.S. and throughout the world. Any future terrorist activity involving the air travel industry could have an equal or greater impact. There have been highly reported attempted acts of terrorism involving aircraft flying out of Heathrow Airport in London and JFK International Airport in New York. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the air travel industry, may negatively affect the air travel industry and the demand for air travel. Terrorist attacks have also resulted in significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience. Since September 11, 2001, the Transportation Security Administration in the U.S. has implemented numerous security measures that affect airport and airline operations and costs, the effects of which may ultimately affect the demand for air travel. Increasingly, China and other countries in Asia are adopting similarly stringent security measures that may lead some air travelers to consider other travel options, such as trains, cars and boats, as more convenient and less intrusive. In addition, these security measures have resulted in higher costs for airports and airlines, which may result in our having to incur higher concession fees. In addition, an aircraft crash or other accident could create a public perception that air travel is not safe or reliable, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly. Significant aircraft delays due to capacity constraints, weather conditions or mechanical problems could also result in lower demand for air travel, especially for shorter domestic flights. If the demand for air travel decreases for any of these or other reasons, advertisers may be reluctant to advertise on our network and we may be unable to fill our advertising time slots and charge premium prices. A decrease in demand for our advertising services may materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, our financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our advertising services, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients, may fluctuate due to changes in general economic conditions and advertising spending typically decreases during periods of economic downturn. Our clients may reduce the money they spend to advertise on our network for a number of reasons, including: • a general decline in economic conditions; • a general decline in the number of air travelers and flights; • a decline in economic conditions in the particular cities where our network airports are located; • a decision to shift advertising expenditures to other available advertising media; and • a decline in advertising spending in general. A decrease in demand for advertising media in general and for our advertising services in particular would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from our advertising services, and our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our expansion strategies or meet the demands of our advertising clients. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We must continue to expand our 16 Table of Contents operations to meet the demands of advertisers for a larger and more diverse network coverage. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce as well as manage our relationships with airports, airlines and third-party non-advertising content providers. We must add sales and marketing offices and personnel to service relationships with new airports that we aim to add as part of our network. As we add new digital frames, digital TV screens and other media platforms, we will incur greater maintenance costs to maintain our equipment. All of these endeavors will require substantial managerial efforts and skill, as well as the incurrence of additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively, and we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our expansion strategies or meet the demands of our advertising clients. Past and future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In July 2008, we acquired the advertising business on gate bridges in several airports by purchasing 100% of the equity interest in Excel Lead International Limited, or Excel Lead, and 80% of the equity interest in Flying Dragon Media Advertising Co., Ltd., or Flying Dragon. We may not be able to effectively integrate the gate bridge advertising business into our operations. We plan to continue to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products which are complementary to our core air travel advertising network business. Past and future acquisitions may expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: • the integration of new operations, services and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the diversion of resources from our existing business and technology; • our potential inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset new costs; • the expenses of acquisitions; or • the potential loss of or harm to relationships with both employees and advertising clients resulting from our integration of new businesses. Any of the potential risks listed above could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our revenues and net income. We may need to raise additional debt funding or sell additional equity securities to make such acquisitions. The raising of additional debt funding by us, if required, would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in additional operating and financing covenants, or liens on our assets, that would restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We do not expect to sustain our recent rates of growth in revenue or the numbers of airlines, airports or digital frames and digital TV screens in our network. We have experienced significant growth in revenues in recent years. Our net revenues increased substantially from US$17.9 million in 2006 to US$119.4 million in 2008. Our network was located in 41 airports and on nine airlines as of December 31, 2008, compared to 28 airports and nine airlines by the end of 2006. The number of digital frames in airports increased from 632 as of December 31, 2007 to 2,156 as of December 31, 2008 while the number of digital TV screens operated by us in airports and on which we place our programs on airplanes increased from 1,562 and 16,015 as of December 31, 2006, to 2,854 and 49,482 as of December 31, 2008, respectively. We do not expect to achieve similar rates of growth in revenues or the number of airports, digital frames or digital TV screens in our network in future periods. 17 Table of Contents Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the seasonality of air travel, consumer spending and corresponding advertising trends in China. In addition, air travel and advertising spending in China generally tend to increase during the “golden” holiday periods, such as the National Day weekend in October and the Chinese New Year holiday in January or February, and tend to decrease during the fourth quarter. Air travel and advertising spending in China is also affected by certain special events such as the Beijing Olympics in 2008 and related government measures. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. We may experience seasonality effects due to the seasonality of air travel and advertising spending in China. Other factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include a deterioration of economic conditions in China and potential changes to the regulation of the advertising industry in China, which are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating costs and expenses for that quarter by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that quarter relative to our operating results for other quarters. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of our chief executive officer, Herman Man Guo, our president, Xiaoya Zhang, our chief operating officer, James Zhonghua Feng, our chief financial officer, Conor Chiahung Yang and our executive president, Ken Zijian Zeng. We rely on their industry expertise, their experience in our business operations and sales and marketing, and their working relationships with our advertising clients, airports and airlines, and relevant government authorities. If one or more of our senior executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us or result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention.” Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities law. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must also contain management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements first applied to our annual report on Form 20-F for this fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report, which is included elsewhere in this annual report and has concluded that we maintained, in all material aspects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could negatively affect the reliability of our financial information and result in the loss of investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders or otherwise harm our 18 Table of Contents reputation. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need additional capital, which, if obtained, could result in dilution or significant debt service obligations. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If our current sources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative advertising media companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising services companies in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure to raise additional funds on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against government actions and civil suits based on the content we provide through our air travel advertising network. Civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our network. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, airports or airlines may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims or may terminate their relationships with us. Offensive and objectionable content and legal standards for defamation and fraud in China are less defined than in other more developed countries and we may not be able to properly screen out unlawful content. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images, text or audio sounds are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images, text or audio sounds to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure despite our efforts to ensure the security of our content management system. Any such event may also damage our reputation. If our advertising viewers do not believe our content is reliable or accurate, our business model may become less appealing to viewers in China and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. 19 Table of Contents Our commercial success depends to a large extent on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. There is no assurance that our displays or other aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and diversion of management time in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely disrupt our business. We have limited insurance coverage in China, and any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for fire insurance and our liability insurance for directors and officers, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We face risks related to health epidemics, which could materially and adversely affect air travel and result in reduced demand for our advertising services or disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a health epidemic or outbreak on the economic and business climate. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak in China may have a material adverse effect on demand for air travel in China. For example, the SARS outbreak in 2003 and 2004 alarmed air travelers around both the region and the world raising issues pertaining to health and travel. During this time period, the SARS outbreak significantly deterred air travel and had a material and adverse effect on the air travel industry. From 2005 to 2008, there have also been reports on the occurrence of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. More recently, human cases of swine flu virus infection have been identified internationally. A new outbreak of SARS, increased outbreaks of avian flu or swine flu, or the occurrence of other epidemics may result in health or other government authorities requiring the closure of our offices or other businesses, including airports and airline operations which comprise the primary locations where we provide our advertising services. A health epidemic could result in a significant drop in demand for air travel and ultimately our advertising services, severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If one or more of our PRC subsidiaries fails to maintain or obtain qualifications to receive PRC preferential tax treatments, we will be required to pay more taxes, which may have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. On March 16, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress passed the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which imposes an uniform income tax rate of 25% on most domestic enterprises and foreign investment enterprises. The EIT Law became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, entities that qualify as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” are entitled to the preferential income tax rate of 15%. A company’s status as a “high and new technology enterprise strongly supported by the state” is valid for three years, after which the company must re-apply for such qualification in order to continue to enjoy the preferential income tax rate. In addition, according to the Administrative Regulations on the Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises, the Guidelines for Recognition of High and New Technology Enterprises and the Notice of Favorable Enterprise Income Tax Policies jointly issued by the PRC Ministry of Science and Technology, the PRC Ministry of Finance and the PRC State Administration of Taxation in April 2008, July 2008 and February 2008, respectively, “new software enterprises” can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. On December 26, 2007, the PRC State Council issued the Notice of the State Council Concerning 20 Table of Contents Implementation of Transitional Rules for Enterprise Income Tax Incentives, or Circular 39. Based on Circular 39, certain enterprises established before March 16, 2007 that were eligible for tax exemptions or reductions according to the then effective tax laws and regulations can continue to enjoy such exemption or reduction until it expires. Furthermore, according to Circular 39, enterprises that were eligible for the preferential tax rates according to the then effective tax laws and regulations may be eligible for a gradual rate increase to 25% over the 5-year period beginning from January 1, 2008. Specifically, the applicable rates under such an arrangement for such enterprises that enjoyed the 15% tax rate prior to the effectiveness of the new PRC tax law will be 18% in 2008, 20% in 2009, 22% in 2010, 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012. However, according to the Notice on Prepayment of Enterprise Income Tax issued by the State Administration of Taxation on January 30, 2008, the gradually increased rate of Enterprise Income Tax, or EIT, during the transition period is not applicable to entities that qualified for preferential tax rates as high and new technology enterprises alone and they would be subject to EIT at 25% from January 2008 if they cannot qualify as high and new technology enterprises under the EIT Law and regulations. AirMedia Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or AM Technology, has qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the former EIT Law and was subject to a 15% preferential EIT. In addition, AM Technology is registered and operates in the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone. As a result, AM Technology was exempt from EIT from 2006 to 2008, and will be entitled to a 50% tax reduction from 2009 to 2011 under the former Foreign-Invested Enterprise Income Tax Law and the relevant implementation rules. AM Technology was recognized as a “high and new technology enterprise supported by the state” under the new rules in December 2008. As a result, it is entitled to continue to enjoy a preferential EIT at the rate of 7.5% from 2009 to 2011 and a preferential EIT of 15% thereafter. Xi’an Air Media Chuangyi Technology Co., Ltd, or Xi’an AM, qualified as a “software enterprise” in August 2008 by the Technology Information Bureau of Shanxi Province and has received an written approval from Xi’an local tax bureau that it will be granted a two-year exemption from EIT commencing on its first profitable year and a 50% reduction of the 25% EIT rate for the succeeding three years. Shenzhen AirMedia Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shenzhen AM, was subject to a 15% preferential tax EIT rate as it is located in Shenzhen and is currently subject to EIT on its taxable income at the gradual rate pursuant to Circular 39. Shenzhen AM submitted its application to be qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise strongly supported by the State” under the new PRC tax law in March 2009 and if successful, will be eligible for a 15% EIT rate. There is no assurance that our PRC subsidiaries will be able to maintain or obtain qualifications to receive the above preferential tax treatments. We will be required to pay more taxes if they fail to become or continue to be eligible to receive PRC tax benefits, which may have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. Dividends payable to us by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income and dividends distributed to our investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the new PRC tax law. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The British Virgin Islands, where our wholly owned subsidiary and the 100% shareholder of Shenzhen AM is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Air Media (China) Limited, the 100% shareholder of AM Technology, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006 and the relevant rules, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). The EIT Law provides, however, dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises will be exempted. As the term “resident enterprises” needs further clarification and explanation, we cannot assure you that the dividends distributed by Shenzhen AM, AM Technology and Xi’an AM to their direct shareholders would be regarded as dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises, and be exempted from the EIT. 21 Table of Contents Under the EIT Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to EIT at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the EIT Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. We believe we are not a PRC resident enterprise. However, if we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income; dividend income we receive from the PRC subsidiaries, however, would be exempt from PRC tax since such income to a PRC resident recipient is exempted under the new EIT Law. With the newly imposed 10% PRC dividend withholding tax, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new PRC tax law. Moreover, under the new PRC tax law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment. Risks Related to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure Compliance with PRC advertising laws and regulations may be difficult and could be costly, and failure to comply could subject us to government sanctions. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations. As an air travel advertising service provider, we are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content that is shown on our network for compliance with applicable law. In general, the advertisements shown on our network have previously been broadcast over public television networks and have been subjected to internal review and verification of such networks. We are still required to independently review and verify these advertisements for content compliance before displaying the advertisements. In addition, if a special government review is required for certain product advertisements before they are shown to the public, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as food products, alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertising client’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. We endeavor to comply with such requirements, including by requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. However, we cannot assure you that each advertisement that an advertiser or advertising agency client provides to us and which we include in our network programs is in compliance with relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients in connection with certain advertising content are complete. Although we employ qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, the content standards in the PRC are less certain and less clear than in those in more developed countries such as the U.S. and we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly review the content to comply with the standards imposed on us with certainty. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our 22 Table of Contents China business do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry and in the operating of non-advertising content, we could be subject to severe penalties. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities in China, Beijing AirMedia Advertising Co., Ltd., or AM Advertising, Beijing Shengshi Lianhe Advertising Co., Ltd, or Shengshi Lianhe, AirMedia UC Advertising Co., Ltd., or AirMedia UC, and Beijing Yuehang Digital Media Advertising Co., Ltd., or AM Yuehang. Though PRC regulations currently permit 100% foreign ownership of companies that provide advertising services, any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry are required to have at least three years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. In addition, PRC regulations currently prohibit foreign investment in the production and operation of any non-advertising content. We do not currently directly operate an advertising business outside of China and thus cannot qualify under PRC regulations until three years after we commence any such operations outside of China or until we acquire a company that has directly operated an advertising business outside of China for the required period of time. Accordingly, our three subsidiaries, Shenzhen AM, AM Technology and Xi’an AM are currently ineligible to apply for the required licenses for providing advertising services in China. Our advertising business is primarily provided through our contractual arrangements with our four consolidated variable interest entities in China. AM Advertising is owned by Shengshi Lianhe and three PRC citizens: Herman Man Guo, Qing Xu and Xiaoya Zhang. Shengshi Lianhe is owned by three PRC citizens: Herman Man Guo, Qing Xu and Xiaoya Zhang. AirMedia UC is owned by two PRC citizens: Herman Man Guo and Qing Xu. AM Yuehang is owned by two PRC citizens: James Zhonghua Feng and Tao Hong. Our variable interest entities are the major companies through which we provide advertising services in China. They directly operate our advertising network, enter into concession rights contracts and sell advertising time slots to our clients. We depend on our variable interest entities to operate our advertising business. We have entered into contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities, pursuant to which we, through AM Technology, provide technical support and consulting services to our variable interest entities. In addition, we have entered into agreements with our variable interest entities and each of their shareholders, which provide us with the substantial ability to control our variable interest entities. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” Under the equity pledge agreements, the shareholders of our variable interest entities respectively pledged their equity interests in our variable interest entities to AM Technology. This pledge was duly created by recording the pledge on AM Technology’s register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Security Law, which governed the validity of such pledge prior to the effectiveness of the PRC Property Rights Law. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, however, effective as of October 1, 2007, and Measures for the Registration of Equity Pledge with Administration for Industry and Commerce, effective as of October 1, 2008, such pledge will be effective upon registration with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. AM Technology is in the process of applying for such registration with the local administration for industry and commerce. Before the completion of such registration procedure, we cannot assure you that the effectiveness of such pledge can be recognized in PRC courts if disputes arise on certain pledged equity interest or that AM Technology’s interests as pledgee will prevail over those of third parties. If we or any of our variable interest entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, and the SARFT, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; or • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. 23 Table of Contents The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with AM Advertising, Shengshi Lianhe, AirMedia UC and AM Yuehang and their shareholders for a substantial portion of our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with AM Advertising, Shengshi Lianhe, AirMedia UC and AM Yuehang to operate our advertising business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our variable interest entities. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our variable interest entities or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. Many of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Contractual arrangements we have entered into among our subsidiaries and variable interest entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our preferential tax treatment, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we have entered into among AM Technology and our variable interest entities are found not to be on an arm’s length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for the tax savings we achieved for the period from August 7, 2005, the date we commenced operations, to December 31, 2005 or in 2006, 2007 and 2008, or that Shenzhen AM, AM Technology, Xi’an AM, AM Advertising and its subsidiaries, Shengshi Lianhe, AirMedia UC or AM Yuehang are ineligible for their preferential tax treatment, would substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. We may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If AM Technology, Shenzhen AM or Xi’an AM incur debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the ability of AM Technology, Shenzhen AM or Xi’an AM to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements AM Technology currently has in place with our variable interest entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect AM Technology’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM are also required to set aside a portion of net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, subject to certain cumulative limits, the statutory general 24 Table of Contents reserve fund requires annual appropriations of at least 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends until such reserve fund is equal to at least 50% of the respective registered capital of AM Technology, Shenzhen AM or Xi’an AM. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC variable interest entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Although none of Shenzhen AM, Xi’an AM or AM Technology has any present plan to pay any cash dividends to us in the foreseeable future any limitation on the ability of AM Technology, Shenzhen AM or Xi’an AM to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Changes in laws and regulations governing air travel advertising or otherwise affecting our business in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. There are no existing PRC laws or regulations that specifically define or regulate air travel advertising. It has been reported that the relevant PRC government authorities are currently considering adopting new regulations governing air travel advertising. We cannot predict the timing and effects of such new regulations. Changes in laws and regulations governing the content of air travel advertising, our business licenses or otherwise affecting our business in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments of China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past decades, growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. We cannot predict the future direction of political or economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the political or economic conditions in China, including changes in the policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and in the air travel advertising industry. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, lead to a reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us or result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. We conduct our business primarily through AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM, which are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to 25 Table of Contents wholly-foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and the enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high but never exceeding it. As a consequence, the Renminbi has also fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. The reporting and functional currency of our Cayman Islands parent company is the U.S. dollar. However, substantially all of the revenues and expenses of our consolidated operating subsidiaries and affiliate entities are denominated in Renminbi. Substantially all of our sales contracts were denominated in Renminbi and substantially all of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of dividend distribution or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited so that we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in RMB. If our RMB-denominated revenues increase or RMB-denominated expenses decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payments of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Shenzhen AM, AM Technology and Xi’an AM are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our subsidiary and variable interest entities in China under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we or other foreign lenders make foreign currency loans to our subsidiaries or variable interest entities in China, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance them by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved or registered by certain government authorities including the SAFE, the Ministry of Commerce or 26 Table of Contents their local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of these entities to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could affect our business and financial condition. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. Current regulations promulgated by SAFE require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their SAFE registration with the local branch of SAFE when such updates are required under applicable SAFE regulations. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions, such as restrictions on distributing dividend to our offshore entities or pecuniary measures against us. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, or the PBOC Regulation, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the PBOC Regulation, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on 27 Table of Contents the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—SAFE Regulations on Offshore Investment by PRC Residents and Employee Stock Options.” The new M&A rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government and regulatory authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors,” or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule, among other things, sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. Part of our growth strategy includes acquiring complementary businesses or assets. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, if any of our acquisitions were subject to the New M&A Rule and were found not to be in compliance with the requirements of the New M&A Rule in the future, relevant PRC regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects. Risks Related to Our ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the year of 2008, the trading prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq ranged from US$3.80 to US$26.51 per ADS and the closing sale price on April 24, 2009 was US$5.59 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors including the following: • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other advertising companies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the air travel advertising industry; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the circulation, ratings, audience, quality or effectiveness of our services or those of our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of our senior management; and • sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of a certain number of our shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. 28 Table of Contents We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. 29 Table of Contents As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have included certain provisions in our memorandum and articles of association that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, and deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. We have included the following provisions in our articles that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board of directors has the authority to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series, including the designation of the series, the number of shares of the series, the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, and the rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. • Our board of directors may issue a series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued preferred shares. Accordingly, the issuance of preferred shares may adversely affect the rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. Issuance of preference shares may dilute the voting power of holders of ordinary shares. • Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, our board of directors may issue additional ordinary shares or rights to acquire ordinary shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued shares. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholder who could exert significant influence over important corporate matters, which may reduce the price of our ADSs and deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares. As of April 27, 2009, our principal shareholder, Herman Man Guo, beneficially owned approximately 41.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, as of April 27, 2009, Global Gateway Investments Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CDH China Growth Capital Management Company Limited, or CDH, beneficially owned approximately 19. 9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders, if acting together, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have the dual effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and reducing the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In addition, these persons could divert business opportunities from us to themselves or others. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our income and assets, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects and, in addition, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2009 or any future taxable year. In particular, we believe that there is a significant risk that we will be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2009 unless the market price of our ADSs increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce active income. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that 30 Table of Contents produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we utilize the cash (or other passive assets or investments) we have on hand or raise in any offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. For example, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations with respect to any gain recognized or the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares and certain distributions, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 