Risk Factors An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, including our financial statements and the related notes thereto, before you decide to buy, hold or sell our common shares. Any of the risk factors we describe below could adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our common shares could decline and you may lose some or all of your investment if one or more of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The downturn and other adverse developments in the global economy, including the current global financial crisis and the current global recession, may materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and future prospects. During 2009, the global financial crisis, particularly affecting the credit markets as well as equity markets, accelerated and the global recession deepened. Global containerized cargo volume contracted significantly on most trade routes although we have seen some improvement since the second half of 2009. Though we cannot predict the extent, timing or ramifications of the global financial crisis and the global recession, we believe that the current downturn in the world’s major economies and the constraints in the credit markets have heightened or could heighten a number of material risks to our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as our future prospects, including the following: • Containerized cargo volume growth—A contraction or slowdown in containerized cargo volume growth or negative containerized cargo volume growth would likely create a surplus of containers, lower utilization, higher direct costs, weaker shipping lines going out of business, pressure for us to offer lease concessions and lead to a reduction in the size of our customers’ container fleets. • Credit availability and access to equity markets—Continued issues involving liquidity and capital adequacy affecting lenders could affect our ability to fully access our credit facilities or obtain additional debt and could affect the ability of our lenders to meet their funding requirements when we need to borrow. Further, the high level of volatility in the equity markets may make it difficult for us to access the equity markets for additional capital at attractive prices, if at all. If we are unable to obtain credit or access the capital markets, our business could be negatively impacted. • Credit availability to our customers—We believe that many of our customers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to fund their operations. As a consequence, if our customers lack liquidity, it would likely negatively impact their ability to pay amounts due to us. Many of these and other factors affecting the container industry are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control. The demand for leased containers depends on many political and economic factors beyond our control. Substantially all of our revenue comes from activities related to the leasing, managing and selling of containers. Our ability to continue successfully leasing containers to container shipping lines, earning management fees on leased containers and sourcing capital required to purchase containers depends, in part, upon the continued demand for leased containers. 6 Table of Contents Demand for containers depends largely on the rate of world trade and economic growth, with worldwide consumer demand being the most critical factor affecting this growth. Demand for leased containers is also driven by our customers’ “lease vs. buy” decisions. Economic downturns in the U.S., Europe, Asia and countries with consumer-oriented economies could result in a reduction in world trade volume and demand by container shipping lines for leased containers. Thus, a decrease in the volume of world trade may adversely affect our utilization and per diem rates and lead to reduced revenue and increased operating expenses (such as storage and repositioning costs), and have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We cannot predict whether, or when, such downturns will occur. As a result of the global financial crisis and the global recession, global containerized cargo volume contracted on most trade routes during the first half of fiscal year 2009. Many of our customers reported slower growth in cargo bookings during fiscal year 2009 compared to fiscal year 2008. Growth in cargo bookings were affected by the following factors, among others: (i) a slowdown in the global economy resulted in less import and export growth; (ii) a stronger Chinese Yuan affected cargo growth; (iii) some factories in southern China closed due to new labor laws in China making them less competitive; and (iv) reductions in export tax credits. Other general factors affecting demand for leased containers, utilization and per diem rates include the following: • prices of new and used containers; • economic conditions, competitive pressures and consolidation in the container shipping industry; • shifting trends and patterns of cargo traffic; • fluctuations in demand for containerized goods outside their area of production; • the availability and terms of container financing; • fluctuations in interest rates and U.S. and non-U.S. currency values; • overcapacity, undercapacity and consolidation of container manufacturers; • the lead times required to purchase containers; • the number of containers purchased by competitors and container lessees; • container ship fleet overcapacity or undercapacity; • increased repositioning by container shipping lines of their own empty containers to higher demand locations in lieu of leasing containers; • consolidation or withdrawal of individual container lessees in the container leasing industry; • import/export tariffs and restrictions; • customs procedures, foreign exchange controls and other governmental regulations; • natural disasters that are severe enough to affect local and global economies or interfere with trade; and • other political and economic factors. Many of these and other factors affecting the container industry are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control. These factors will vary over time, often quickly and unpredictably, and any change in one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, many of these factors also influence the decision by container shipping lines to lease or buy containers. Should one or more of these factors influence container shipping lines to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate could decrease, resulting in decreased revenue and increased storage and repositioning costs, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents Lease rates may decrease, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, lessee defaults may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition by decreasing revenue and increasing storage, repositioning, collection and recovery expenses. We compete mostly on price and the availability of containers. Lease rates for our containers depend on a large number of factors, including the following: • the supply of containers available; • the price of new containers (which is positively correlated with the price of steel); • the type and length of the lease; • interest rates; • embedded residual assumptions; • the type and age of the container; • the location of the container being leased; • the number of containers available for lease by our competitors; and • the lease rates offered by our competitors. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, lease rates can be negatively impacted by, among other things, the entrance of new leasing companies, overproduction of new containers by factories and the over-buying by shipping lines, leasing competitors and tax-driven container investors. For example, during 2001 and again in the second quarter of 2005, overproduction of new containers, coupled with a build-up of container inventories in Asia by leasing companies and shipping lines, led to decreased utilization rates. If future market lease rates decrease, revenues generated by our fleet will likely be adversely affected, which could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our containers are leased to numerous container lessees. Lessees are required to pay rent and to indemnify us for damage to or loss of containers. Lessees may default in paying rent and performing other obligations under their leases. A delay or diminution in amounts received under the leases (including leases on our managed containers), or a default in the performance of maintenance or other lessee obligations under the leases could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt. Our cash in-flows from containers, principally container rental revenue, management fee revenue, gain on disposition of used equipment and commissions earned on the sale of containers on behalf of container investors, are affected significantly by our ability to collect payments under leases and purchase and sale agreements, which is subject to external economic conditions and the operations of lessees and others that are not within our control. When lessees default, we may fail to recover all of our containers, and the containers that we do recover may be returned to locations where we will not be able to quickly re-lease or sell them on commercially acceptable terms. We may have to reposition these containers to other places where we can re-lease or sell them, which could be expensive, depending on the locations and distances involved. Following repositioning, we may need to repair the containers and pay container depots for storage until the containers are re-leased. For our owned containers, these costs directly reduce our income before taxes and for our managed containers, lessee defaults decrease rental revenue and increase operating expenses, and thus reduce our management fee revenue. While we maintain insurance to cover some defaults, it is subject to large deductible amounts and significant exclusions and, therefore, may not be sufficient to prevent us from suffering material losses. Additionally, this insurance might not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. While defaults by 8 Table of Contents lessees, as measured by our experience and reflected on our financial statements as a bad debt expense, averaged 1.1% of lease rental revenue over the past 5 years, it increased to 1.7% in fiscal 2009 and future defaults may be more material. Any such future defaults could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Sustained reduction in either the prices of new containers or the production of new containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A contraction or slowdown in containerized cargo growth or negative containerized cargo growth would lead to a surplus of containers and a lack of storage space. Furthermore, if we are unable to lease our new containers shortly after we purchase them, our risk of ownership of the containers increases. If there is a sustained downturn in new container prices, the lease rates of older, off-lease containers would also be expected to decrease. As of December 31, 2009, we had an average cost of $1,574 per CEU for our owned fleet. If there is a sustained reduction in the price of new containers such that the market lease rate for all containers is reduced, this trend could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, even if this sustained reduction in price would allow us to purchase containers at a lower cost. With respect to supply, we estimate virtually no new standard dry freight containers were manufactured from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the end of 2009. We estimate that the world container fleet declined by approximately 4% in 2009 as a result of the continued retirement of older containers in the ordinary course. During this period, container manufacturers lost up to 60% of their skilled work force due to long shutdowns, and have limited production capacity in 2010. If there is a sustained reduction in the production of new containers, it could impact our ability to expand our fleet, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, even if we could purchase used containers at a lower cost. Lease rates for new containers are positively correlated to the fluctuations in the price of new containers, which is positively correlated with the price of steel, which is a major component used in the manufacture of new containers. In the past five years, we have purchased new containers at prices ranging from $1,429 per CEU to $2,686 per CEU. Our average new container cost per CEU decreased 7.8% during 2009. If we are unable to lease the new containers that we purchase within a short period of time of such purchase, the market price of new containers and the corresponding market lease rates for new containers may decrease, regardless of the high cost of the previously purchased containers. This decline could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further consolidation of container manufacturers or the disruption of manufacturing for the major manufacturers could result in higher new container prices and/or decreased supply of new containers. Any increase in the cost or reduction in the supply of new containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently purchase almost all of our containers from manufacturers based in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”). If it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers in the PRC or to transport these containers at a low cost from the manufacturer to the locations where they are needed by our container lessees because of changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Chinese Yuan, further consolidation among container suppliers, increased tariffs imposed by the U.S. or other governments, increased fuel costs, or for any other reason, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply. While we are not dependent on any single manufacturer for our supply of containers, we may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our container needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs. In particular, the availability and price of containers depend significantly on the capacity and bargaining position of the major container manufacturers. There has recently been a consolidation in the container manufacturing industry, resulting in two major manufacturers having market share of approximately 70% of that industry. This increased bargaining position has led to sustained increases in container prices. Although the 9 Table of Contents increase in container prices may not be sustainable in the future due to a decrease in the demand for new containers resulting from the global recession, if the cost of purchasing containers does increase and it is not matched by an increase in lease rates, our business, results of operations and financial conditions would be harmed. Terrorist attacks, the threat of such attacks or the outbreak of war and hostilities could negatively impact our operations and profitability and may expose us to liability. Terrorist attacks and the threat of such attacks have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts or threats of terrorism, violence, war or hostilities could similarly affect world trade and the industries in which we and our container lessees operate. For example, worldwide containerized trade dramatically decreased in the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., which affected demand for leased containers. In addition, terrorist attacks, threats of terrorism, violence, war or hostilities may directly impact ports, depots, our facilities or those of our suppliers or container lessees and could impact our sales and our supply chain. A severe disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods could result in a reduction in the level of international trade and lower demand for our containers. Our lease agreements require our lessees to indemnify us for all costs, liabilities and expenses arising out of the use of our containers, including property damage to the containers, damage to third-party property and personal injury. However, our lessees may not have adequate resources to honor their indemnity obligations upon a terrorist attack. Our insurance coverage is limited and is subject to large deductibles and significant exclusions and we have very limited insurance for liability arising from a terrorist attack. Accordingly, we may not be protected from liability (and expenses in defending against claims of liability) arising from a terrorist attack. A substantial portion of our containers is leased out from or manufactured at locations in the PRC and a significant number of our major shipping line customers is domiciled in either the PRC (including Hong Kong) or Taiwan. Therefore, our results of operations are subject to changes resulting from the political and economic policies of the PRC. A substantial portion of our containers is leased out from locations in the PRC because of the large volume of goods being shipped from the PRC to the U.S. or Europe. The main manufacturers of containers are also located in the PRC. These business operations could be restricted by the political environment in the PRC. The PRC has operated as a socialist state since 1949 and is controlled by the Communist Party of China. In recent years, however, the government has introduced reforms aimed at creating a “socialist market economy” and policies have been implemented to allow business enterprises greater autonomy in their operations. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies related to the current economic reform programs, other policies affecting business and the general political, economic and social environment in the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion, remittances abroad, and foreign investment. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation of or increases in such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, the future direction of these economic reforms is uncertain. This uncertainty may affect the economic development in the PRC, thereby affecting the level of trade with the rest of the world and the corresponding need for containers to ship goods from the PRC. In addition, a large number of our shipping line customers are domiciled either in the PRC (including Hong Kong) or in Taiwan. In fiscal year 2009, approximately 29.5% of our revenue was attributable to shipping line customers that were either domiciled in the PRC (including Hong Kong) or in Taiwan. The manufacturing facilities of the container manufacturers from which we purchased the majority of our containers in 2008 are also located in the PRC. Political instability in either the PRC or Taiwan could have a negative effect on our major customers, our ability to obtain containers and correspondingly, our results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents The legal systems in the PRC and other jurisdictions have inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us. We currently purchase all of our containers from manufacturers based in the PRC. In addition, a substantial portion of our containers is leased out from locations in the PRC. California law governs almost all of these agreements. However, disputes or settlements arising out of these agreements may need to be enforced in the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in the PRC. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and may be subject to considerable discretion, variation, or influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. The enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involves uncertainties that may limit remedies available to us. Any litigation or arbitration in the PRC may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, the PRC may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights that we may have under our contracts or otherwise in the PRC, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, as our containers are used in trade involving goods being shipped from the PRC to the United States, Europe or other regions, it is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. Litigation and enforcement proceedings have inherent uncertainties in any jurisdiction and are expensive. These uncertainties are enhanced in countries that have less developed legal systems where the interpretation of laws and regulations is not consistent, may be influenced by factors other than legal merits and may be cumbersome, time-consuming and even more expensive. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and where the legal system is not as well developed. As a result, the remedies available and the relative success and expedience of collection and enforcement proceedings with respect to the containers in various jurisdictions cannot be predicted. The demand for leased containers is partially tied to international trade. If this demand were to decrease due to increased barriers to trade, or for any other reason, it could reduce demand for intermodal container leasing, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our containers is used in trade involving goods being shipped from the PRC to the United States, Europe or other regions. The willingness and ability of international consumers to purchase PRC goods is dependent on political support, in the United States, Europe and other countries, for an absence of government-imposed barriers to international trade in goods and services. For example, international consumer demand for PRC goods is related to price; if the price differential between PRC goods and domestically-produced goods were to decrease due to increased tariffs on PRC goods, demand for PRC goods could decrease, which could result in reduced demand for intermodal container leasing. A similar reduction in demand for intermodal container leasing could result from an increased use of quotas or other technical barriers to restrict trade from or to the PRC. The current regime of relatively free trade may not continue. Because substantially all of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The U.S. dollar is our primary operating currency. Almost all of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, and approximately 62% of our direct container expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars for the year ended December 31, 2009. Accordingly, a significant amount of our expenses are incurred in currencies other 11 Table of Contents than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, 38% of the Company’s direct container expenses were paid in 17 different foreign currencies for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 15 different foreign currencies for the year ended December 31, 2008. A significant amount of these payments was due to containers on lease to the U.S. military under our contract with the Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (“SDDC”), which contains a provision to protect us from fluctuations in exchange rates for payments made in foreign currencies. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against non-U.S. currencies in which our expenses are incurred translates into an increase in those expenses in U.S. dollar terms, which would decrease our net income. Sustained Asian economic instability could reduce demand for leasing, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our customers are substantially dependent upon shipments of goods exported from Asia. From time to time, there have been health scares, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and avian flu, financial turmoil, natural disasters and political instability in Asia. If these events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect our container lessees and the general demand for shipping and lead to reduced demand for leased containers or otherwise adversely affect us. Any reduction in demand for leased containers would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We own a large and growing number of containers in our fleet and are subject to significant ownership risk. Ownership of containers entails greater risk than management of containers for container investors. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, we will increase our exposure to financing costs, changes in per diem rates, re-leasing risk, changes in utilization rates, lessee defaults, repositioning costs, storage expenses, impairment charges and changes in sales price upon disposition of containers. The number of containers in our owned fleet fluctuates over time as we purchase new containers, sell containers into the secondary resale market, and acquire other fleets. As part of our strategy, we are focused on increasing the number of owned containers in our fleet and we therefore expect our ownership risk to increase correspondingly. In 2009 and 2008, we paid $146.3 million and $319.3 million, respectively, to purchase containers for our owned fleet. We believe we will be able to find container investors to purchase the desired portion of the new containers that we want to manage. If we are unable to locate container investors to purchase these containers, we may purchase the containers ourselves and operate them as part of our owned fleet. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, we will have significant capital at risk and may need to incur more debt, which could result in financial instability. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, either as a result of planned growth in our owned fleet or as a result of our inability to attract investment to purchase containers from container investors, we will likely have more capital at risk and may need to maintain higher debt balances at a level that may adversely affect our return on equity and reduce our ability to raise capital, including our ability to borrow money to continue expanding our owned fleet. Future borrowings may not be available under our revolving credit facility or our secured debt facility, and we may not be able to refinance these facilities, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in order to fund our business, expand our sales activities and/or respond to competitive pressures. We may not have access to the capital resources we desire or need to fund our business. These effects, among others, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our plans to maintain the container management portion of our business. If we are unable to finance our continued purchase of containers or other capital expenditures, our competitive position may diminish and our business, growth plans and results of operations may be harmed. Our container lessees typically prefer newer containers. Also, a portion of our container fleet is disposed of due to age or other factors every year. To grow our business, we must add new containers to our fleet. We have 12 Table of Contents typically funded a significant portion of the purchase price of new containers through borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility and intend to use borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility for such funding in the future. Future borrowings may not be available under our revolving credit facility or our secured debt facility, and we may not be able to refinance these facilities, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in order to fund our capital expenditures. We may not have access to the capital resources we desire or need to fund our capital expenditures. If we are unable to make the necessary capital expenditures, our fleet of containers may be less attractive to our container lessees and our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from each of our Container Ownership and Container Resale segments from a limited number of container lessees, and the loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these container lessees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue and cash flow from a limited number of container lessees. Our business comprises four reportable segments for financial statement reporting purposes: Container Ownership, Container Management, Container Resale and Military Management. Revenue for our Container Ownership segment comes primarily from container lessees that lease containers from our owned fleet. Revenue for our Container Management segment is also primarily dependent on the lease revenue of those containers that we manage. Lease billings from our 25 largest container lessees by revenue represented $317.3 million or 75.7% of the total fleet billings for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, with lease billings from our single largest container lessee accounting for $51.4 million, or 12.1% of container lease billings during such fiscal year. We do not distinguish between our owned fleet and our managed fleet when we enter into leases with or lease containers to container shipping lines. Accordingly, the largest lessees of our owned fleet are typically among the largest lessees of our managed fleet, and our management fee revenue is based on the number and performance of managed containers on lease to container lessees. As a result, the loss of, or default by, any of our largest container lessees could have a material adverse effect on the revenue for both our Container Ownership segment and our Container Management segment, and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face extensive competition in the container leasing industry. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive container leasing and container management businesses. We compete with a relatively small number of major leasing companies, many smaller lessors, companies and financial institutions offering finance leases, and promoters of container ownership and leasing as a tax-efficient investment. In addition, shipping lines own a significant amount of the world’s intermodal containers and effectively compete with us. Some of these competitors have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do. Additionally, some of these competitors may have large, underutilized inventories of containers, which could, if leased, lead to significant downward pressure on per diem rates, margins and prices of containers. Competition among container leasing companies depends upon many factors, including, among others: per diem rates; supply reliability; lease terms, including lease duration, drop-off restrictions and repair provisions; customer service; and the location, availability, quality and individual characteristics of containers. New entrants into the leasing business have been attracted by the high rate of containerized trade growth and the extent of investment from a number of container investors in recent years. New entrants may be willing to offer pricing or other terms that we are unwilling or unable to match. Shipping lines may prefer to use containers they own instead of leasing containers from us. As a result, we may not be able to maintain a high utilization rate or achieve our growth plans. The international nature of the container shipping industry exposes us to numerous risks. Our ability to enforce lessees’ obligations may be subject to applicable law in the jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought or the country of domicile of the lessee. As containers are predominantly located on 13 Table of Contents international waterways and the lessees domiciled in many different countries, it is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions in which laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the U.S. and in jurisdictions where recovery of containers from defaulting lessees is more cumbersome. As a result, the relative success and expedience of enforcement proceedings with respect to containers in various jurisdictions cannot be predicted. We are also subject to risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. These risks include: • regional or local economic downturns; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds or other assets into or out of different countries; • import and export duties and quotas; • domestic and foreign customs and tariffs; • war, hostilities and terrorist attacks, or the threat of any of these events; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; • government protectionism; • compliance with export controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Commerce; • compliance with import procedures and controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; • consequences from changes in tax laws, including tax laws pertaining to the container investors; • potential liabilities relating to foreign withholding taxes; • labor or other disruptions at key ports; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in various jurisdictions. One or more of these factors or other related factors may impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our proprietary information technology systems to conduct our business. If these systems fail to perform their functions adequately, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on our proprietary information technology systems. We rely on our systems to record transactions, such as repair and depot charges, purchases and disposals of containers and movements associated with each of our owned or managed containers. We use the information provided by these systems in our day-to-day business decisions in order to effectively manage our lease portfolio, reduce costs and improve customer service. We also rely on these systems for the accurate tracking of the performance of our managed fleet for each container investor. The failure of our systems to perform as we expect could disrupt our business, adversely affect our results of operations and cause our relationships with lessees and 14 Table of Contents container investors to suffer. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss and computer systems failures and viruses. Even though we have developed redundancies and other contingencies to mitigate any disruptions to our information technology systems, these redundancies and contingencies may not completely prevent interruptions to our information technology systems. Any such interruptions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation and concentration in the container shipping industry could decrease the demand for leased containers. We primarily lease containers to container shipping lines. We believe container shipping lines require a quantity of containers equal to just under two times the total TEU capacity on their container ships to support their operations. The container shipping lines have historically relied on a large number of leased containers to satisfy their needs. The shipping industry has been consolidating for a number of years, and further consolidation is expected. Consolidation of major container shipping lines could create efficiencies and decrease the demand that container shipping lines have for leased containers because they may be able to fulfill a larger portion of their needs through their owned container fleets. Consolidation could also create concentration of credit risk if the number of our container lessees decreases. Additionally, large container shipping lines with significant resources could choose to manufacture their own containers, which would decrease their demand for leased containers and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs to reposition our containers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. When lessees return containers to locations where supply exceeds demand, we sometimes reposition containers to higher demand areas. Repositioning expenses vary depending on geographic location, distance, freight rates and other factors, and may not be fully covered by drop-off charges collected from the previous lessee of the containers or pick-up charges paid by the new lessee. We seek to limit the number of and impose surcharges on containers returned to low demand locations. Market conditions, however, may not enable us to continue such practices. In addition, we may not be able to accurately anticipate which locations will be characterized by higher or lower demand in the future, and our current contracts will not protect us from repositioning costs if locations that we expect to be higher demand locations turn out to be lower demand locations at the time the containers are returned. Any such increases in costs to reposition our containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. military could inform us that containers they lease from us are unaccounted for, which could lead to the loss of future rental income. Since the inception of our contract with the SDDC, the U.S. military has informed us that a total of 45,072 containers that they leased from us were unaccounted for. Per the terms of our contract with the U.S. military, they paid a stipulated value for each of these containers. Due to the loss of these containers, future rental income from the U.S. military on these containers ceased. If the U.S. military informs us that additional containers that they lease from us are unaccounted for, future rental income that we receive from the U.S. military on containers that they lease from us could be adversely impacted, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based upon the nature of our business activities, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to direct or indirect U.S. investors in our common shares. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. 15 Table of Contents investors could become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and could become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: • 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or • the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. In applying these tests, we are treated as owning or generating directly our pro rata share of the assets and income of any corporation in which we own at least 25% by value. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we have raised. If you are a U.S. investor and we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you own our common shares, you could be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless a U.S. investor is permitted to and does elect otherwise under the Internal Revenue Code, such U.S. investor would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the investor’s holding period for our common shares. Based on the composition of our income, valuation of our assets (including goodwill), and our election to treat certain of our subsidiaries as disregarded entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we do not believe we were a PFIC for any period after the IPO date and we do not expect that we should be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year. However, there can be no assurance at all in this regard. Because the PFIC determination is highly fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, it is possible that we may be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the IRS may challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Textainer Group Holdings Limited is a Bermuda company, and we believe that a significant portion of the income derived from our operations will not be subject to tax in Bermuda, which currently has no corporate income tax, or in many other countries in which we conduct activities or in which our customers or containers are located. However, this belief is based on the anticipated nature and conduct of our business, which may change. It is also based on our understanding of our position under the tax laws of the countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. This position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law that may have retroactive effect. A portion of our income is treated as effectively connected with our conduct of a trade or business within the U.S., and is accordingly subject to U.S. federal income tax. It is possible that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will conclude that a greater portion of our income is effectively connected income that should be subject to U.S. federal income tax. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we become subject to a significant amount of unanticipated tax liabilities. Our U.S. subsidiaries may be treated as personal holding companies for U.S. federal tax purposes now or in the future. Any of our direct or indirect U.S. subsidiaries could be subject to additional U.S. tax on a portion of its income if it is considered to be a personal holding company (“PHC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status depends on whether more than 50% of the subsidiary’s shares by value could be deemed to be owned 16 Table of Contents (taking into account constructive ownership rules) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of the subsidiary’s adjusted ordinary gross income consists of “personal holding company income,” which includes certain forms of passive and investment income. The PHC rules do not apply to non-U.S. corporations. We believe that none of our U.S. subsidiaries should be considered PHCs. In addition, we intend to cause our U.S. subsidiaries to manage their affairs in a manner that reduces the possibility that they will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership ( i.e., particularly as determined by constructive ownership rules), our U.S. subsidiaries may become PHCs in the future and, in that event, the amount of U.S. federal income tax that would be imposed could be material. The U.S. government has special contracting requirements that create additional risks. We have entered into a firm, fixed price, indefinite quantity contract with the Surface Deployment and Distribution Command (“SDDC”) to supply leased marine containers to the U.S. military. As an indefinite quantity contract, there is no guarantee that the U.S. military will pay more than the minimum guarantee, which guaranteed amount is substantially below the total amount authorized under the contract. Thus, the expected revenues from the SDDC contract may not fully materialize. If we do not perform in accordance with the terms of the SDDC contract, we may receive a poor performance report that would be considered by the U.S. military in making any future awards. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be awarded any future government contracts. In contracting with the U.S. military, we are subject to U.S. government contract laws, regulations and other requirements that impose risks not generally found in commercial contracts. For example, U.S. government contracts require contractors to comply with a number of socio-economic requirements and to submit periodic reports regarding compliance, are subject to audit and modification by the U.S. government in its sole discretion, and impose certain requirements relating to software and/or technical data that, if not followed, could result in the inadvertent grant to the U.S. government of broader licenses to use and disclose such software or data than we intended. These laws, regulations and contract provisions also permit, under certain circumstances, the U.S. government unilaterally to: • suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new government contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; • terminate the SDDC contract; • reduce the scope and value of the SDDC contract; • audit our performance under the SDDC contract and our compliance with various regulations; and • change certain terms and conditions in the SDDC contract. In addition, the U.S. military may terminate the SDDC contract either for its convenience at any time or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions generally enable the contractor to recover only those costs incurred or committed, and settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and make the contractor liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. military in procuring undelivered items from another source. In addition, the U.S. government could bring criminal and civil charges against us based on intentional or unintentional violations of the representations and certifications that we have made in the SDDC contract. Although adjustments arising from U.S. government audits and reviews have not seriously harmed our business in the past, future audits and reviews could cause adverse effects. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were to be made against us. 17 Table of Contents Gains and losses associated with the disposition of used equipment may fluctuate and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly sell used containers at the end of their useful economic lives in marine service or when we believe it is financially attractive for us to do so, considering the location, sale price, cost of repair, and possible repositioning expenses. The residual value of these containers affects our profitability. The volatility of the residual values of used containers may be significant. These values depend upon, among other factors, demand for used containers for secondary purposes, comparable new container costs, used container availability, condition and location of the containers, and market conditions. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Containers are typically sold if it is in the best interest of the owner to do so after taking into consideration the prevailing sales price, as affected by the above factors, location, earnings prospects, remaining useful life, repair condition, and suitability for leasing or other uses. Gains or losses on the disposition of used container equipment and the sales fees earned on the disposition of managed containers will also fluctuate and may be significant if we sell large quantities of used containers. Any such fluctuations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for a discussion of our gains or losses on the disposition of used container equipment. We may choose to pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs. We may pursue acquisitions and joint ventures. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating personnel and financial and other systems; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions or joint ventures may not be successful, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. A reduction in the willingness of container investors to have us manage their containers could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A significant percentage of our revenue is attributable to management fees earned on services related to the leasing of containers owned by container investors. This revenue has very low direct operating costs associated with it. Accordingly, fluctuations in our management fee revenue in any period will have an impact on our profitability in that period. Our ability to continue to attract new management contracts depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to lease containers on attractive lease terms and to efficiently manage the repositioning, storage and disposition of containers. In the event container investors perceive another container leasing company as better able to provide them with a stable and attractive rate of return, we may lose management contract opportunities in the future, which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our senior executives are critical to the success of our business and any inability to retain them or recruit new personnel could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our senior management has a long history in the container leasing industry, with our four most senior officers having an average of approximately 18 years of service with us and an average of 23 years in the 18 Table of Contents container leasing industry. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain our senior management, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success also depends on our ability to retain our experienced sales force and technical personnel as well as recruiting new skilled sales, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for these individuals in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new container lessees and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We have employment agreements with all of our executive officers. The lack of an international title registry for containers increases the risk of ownership disputes. Although the Bureau International des Containers registers and allocates a unique four letter prefix to every container in accordance with ISO standard 6346 (Freight container coding, identification and marking) there is no internationally recognized system of recordation or filing to evidence our title to containers nor is there an internationally recognized system for filing security interest in containers. Although this has not occurred to date, the lack of a title recordation system with respect to containers could result in disputes with lessees, end-users, or third parties who may improperly claim ownership of the containers. We may incur costs associated with new cargo security regulations, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the U.S., seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Security Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the U.S. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972, as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. As these regulations develop and change, we may incur compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet new requirements imposed by such regulations. Additionally, certain companies are currently developing or may in the future develop products designed to enhance the security of containers transported in international commerce. Regardless of the existence of current or future government regulations mandating the safety standards of intermodal shipping containers, our competitors may adopt such products or our container lessees may require that we adopt such products. In responding to such market pressures, we may incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. We currently utilize three types of borrowings: (i) issuance of bonds; (ii) borrowings under our revolving credit facility and (iii) borrowings under our secured debt facility. Our revolving credit facility is a bank revolving facility involving an aggregate commitment amount of up to $205.0 million to one of our subsidiaries, Textainer Limited (“TL”). Our secured debt facility is a conduit facility, which allows for recurring borrowings and repayments, granted to Textainer Marine Containers Limited (“TMCL”), which is a subsidiary of TL. TMCL is also the issuer of our bonds. We have typically funded a significant portion of the purchase price of new containers through borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility and intend to use borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility for such funding in the future. We intend for containers to be typically purchased by TL using proceeds from our revolving credit facility. TL then sells these containers at book value to TMCL, which then finances part of the purchase price with draw downs from our secured debt facility. In 2001 and 2005, at such time as the secured debt facility reached an appropriate 19 Table of Contents size, the secured debt facility was refinanced through the issuance of bonds to institutional investors. We anticipate a similar refinancing at such time as the secured debt facility reaches a balance of between $450.0 million and $475.0 million. This timing will depend on the level of future purchases of containers for our owned fleet. As of February 28, 2010, we had (i) outstanding borrowings of $126.0 million under our revolving credit facility, (ii) $160.5 million of outstanding borrowings under our secured debt facility and (iii) $270.4 million outstanding under our bonds payable. We expect that we will maintain a significant amount of indebtedness on an ongoing basis. Payments of principal on our secured debt facility are not scheduled to be due until July 1, 2010, although we have the option of repaying the principal on those borrowings at any time. If we do not refinance the secured debt facility prior to July 1, 2010, we will need to make monthly principal payments. Payments of principal on our bonds are due monthly. The borrowings and related interest under our revolving credit facility are due in full on April 22, 2013, although we have the option of repaying principal prior to that date. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness on terms that we can afford or at all. If we are unable to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, it could limit our ability to grow our business. The amount of our indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including the following: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, investments and future business opportunities and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • reduce our ability to make acquisitions or expand our business; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations, and any failure to comply with such obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds, or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and related obligations and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs or compete successfully in our industry. We will require a significant amount of cash to service and repay our outstanding indebtedness, fund future capital expenditures, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. It is possible that: • our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and to fund working capital requirements and future capital expenditures; • future borrowings will not be available under our current or future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to refinance our debt; or 20 Table of Contents • we will not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our revolving credit facility, secured debt facility and bonds impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, significant operating, financial and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Restrictions imposed by our revolving credit facility, secured debt facility and bonds may limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase our common shares; • enter into new lines of business; • issue capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make loans and certain types of investments; • incur liens; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies or acquire other companies; • enter into certain transactions with shareholders and affiliates; and • restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries. We are also required to comply with certain financial ratio covenants. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these restrictions, including a breach of financial covenants, could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all of our container assets. If we are unable to enter into interest rate swaps and caps on reasonable commercial terms or if a counterparty under our interest rate swap and cap agreements defaults, our exposure associated with our variable rate debt could increase. We have typically funded a significant portion of the purchase price of new containers through borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility and intend to use borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our secured debt facility for such funding in the future. In 2001 and 2005, at such time as the secured debt facility reached an appropriate size, the facility was refinanced through the issuance of bonds to institutional investors. We anticipate a similar refinancing at such time as the secured debt facility reaches a balance between $450.0 million and $475.0 million. As of February 28, 2010, we had (i) outstanding borrowings of $126.0 million under our revolving credit facility, (ii) $160.5 million of outstanding borrowings under our secured debt facility and (iii) $270.4 million outstanding under our bonds payable. All of these outstanding amounts are subject to variable interest rates. We have entered into various interest rate swap and cap agreements to mitigate our exposure associated with variable rate debt. The swap agreements involve payments by us to counterparties at fixed rates in return for receipts based upon variable rates indexed to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate. Our interest rate swap agreements have expiration dates between January 2010 and December 2014. Our interest rate cap agreements have expiration dates between March 2010 and November 2015. There can be no assurance that these interest rate caps and swaps will be available in the future, or if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain such interest rate caps and swaps or if a counterparty under our interest rate swap and cap agreements defaults, our exposure associated with our variable rate debt could increase. 21 Table of Contents Environmental liability and regulations may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air, ground and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and costs arising out of third-party claims for property or natural resource damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws and regulations in connection with our or our lessees’ current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the U.S. and certain other countries, the owner or operator of a container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from the container without regard to the fault of the owner or operator. While we typically maintain certain limited liability insurance and typically require lessees to provide us with indemnity against certain losses, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to protect against any or all liabilities and such indemnities may not be sufficient, or available, to protect us against losses arising from environmental damage. Moreover, our lessees may not have adequate resources, or may refuse to honor their indemnity obligations and our insurance coverage is subject to large deductibles, coverage limits and significant exclusions. We may be affected by potential global climate change or by legal, regulatory or market responses to such potential change. Concern over climate change, including the impact of global warming, has led to significant U.S. and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in the past several years, the U.S. Congress has considered various bills that would regulate greenhouse gas emissions. While these bills have not yet received sufficient Congressional support for enactment, some form of federal climate change legislation is possible in the future. Even in the absence of such legislation, the Environmental Protection Agency, spurred by judicial interpretation of the Clean Air Act, may regulate greenhouse gas emissions, and this could impose substantial costs on our customers. Until the timing, scope and extent of any future regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its direct or indirect effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and share price. It is reasonably possible, however, that such legislation or regulation could impose material costs on the container shipping industry. Moreover, even without such legislation or regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global market place about greenhouse gas emissions emitted by companies in the container shipping industries could harm their reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. We could face litigation involving our management of containers for container investors. We manage containers for container investors under management agreements that are negotiated with each container investor. We make no assurances to container investors that they will make any amount of profit on their investment or that our management activities will result in any particular level of income or return of their initial capital. We believe that as the number of containers that we manage for container investors increases, the possibility that we may be drawn into litigation relating to these managed containers may also increase. Although our management agreements contain contractual protections and indemnities that are designed to limit our exposure to such litigation, such provisions may not be effective, and we may be subject to a significant loss in a successful litigation by a container investor. Certain liens may arise on our containers. Depot operators, manufacturers, repairmen and transporters may come into possession of our containers from time to time and have amounts due to them from the lessees or sublessees of the containers. In the event of nonpayment of those charges by the lessees or sublessees, we may be delayed in, or entirely barred from, repossessing the containers, or be required to make payments or incur expenses to discharge such liens on our containers. 22 Table of Contents We may not always pay dividends on our common shares. We may not be able to pay future dividends because they depend on future earnings, capital requirements, and financial condition. The declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent on our future operating results and the cash requirements of our business. There are a number of factors that can affect our ability to pay dividends and there is no guarantee that we will pay dividends in any given year. In addition, we will not pay dividends in the event we are not allowed to do so under Bermuda law, are in default under (or such payment would cause a default under) our revolving credit facility, or if such payment would cause us to breach any of our covenants. These covenants include certain financial covenants, which would be directly affected by the payment of dividends, such as (i) a minimum net worth level (which level would decrease by the amount of any dividend paid) and (ii) a maximum ratio of consolidated funded debt to consolidated tangible net worth (which amount would decrease by the amount of any dividend paid). The reduction or elimination of dividends may negatively affect the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, since we are a holding company, substantially all of the assets shown on our consolidated balance sheet are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our earnings and cash flow and our ability to pay dividends are largely dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to us in the form of dividends. The calculation of our income tax expense requires significant judgment and the use of estimates. We periodically assess tax positions based on current tax developments, including enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance. In analyzing our overall tax position, consideration is given to the amount and timing of recognizing income tax liabilities and benefits. In applying the tax and accounting guidance to the facts and circumstances, income tax balances are adjusted appropriately through the income tax provision. Reserves for income tax uncertainties are maintained at levels we believe are adequate to absorb probable payments. However, due to the significant judgment required in estimating those reserves, actual amounts paid, if any, could differ significantly from these estimates. Future changes in accounting rules could significantly impact how both we and our customers account for our leases. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. If there are future changes in GAAP with regard to how we and our customers must account for leases, it could change the way we and our customers conduct our businesses and, therefore, could have the potential to have an adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our common shares, which may be affected by market conditions beyond our control, have been volatile and could continue to remain volatile. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, causing significant price variations to occur. Since our initial public offering, our common shares have fluctuated from an intra-day low of $4.23 per share to an intra-day high of $22.97 per share. If the market price of the shares declines significantly, the value of an investment in our common shares would decline. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • failure to meet our earnings estimates; 23 Table of Contents • publication of research reports about us, other intermodal container lessors or the container shipping industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or our industry; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or preference or common shares we may issue in the future; • changes in our dividend payment policy or failure to execute our existing policy; • actions by shareholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the container shipping industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and • deleveraging associated with the global financial crisis. Recently and in the past, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the trading price of our common shares, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment in our common shares. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results, including in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if those events do not directly affect us. You should also be aware that price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common shares are low. One of our shareholders, Halco Holdings Inc., is a company owned by a trust in which Trencor and certain of its affiliates are discretionary beneficiaries and could act in a manner with which other shareholders may disagree or that is not necessarily in the interests of other shareholders. Halco Holdings Inc. (“Halco”) currently beneficially owns approximately 62.1% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Accordingly, Halco has the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any amalgamation, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Six of our eleven directors are also directors of Trencor. In addition, Halco has the ability to control the management and affairs of our company. Halco may have interests that are different from yours. For example, it may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests as a shareholder of our company. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common shares. Affiliates of Halco and Trencor may compete with us and compete with some of our customers. Halco and Trencor, through their affiliates, are free to compete with us, and have engaged in the past and will likely continue to engage in businesses that are similar to ours. In particular, Leased Assets Pool Company Limited (“LAPCO”), an affiliate of Halco, owns containers, has competed against us and our customers through its investment in containers and has used our competitors to manage some of its containers in the past. Thus, although we have a management agreement with LAPCO to manage a majority of its containers, we expect that we will continue to compete with LAPCO in the future, which may result in various conflicts of interest. Our current management and share ownership structure may create conflicts of interest. Six of our eleven directors are also directors of Trencor. These directors owe fiduciary duties to each company and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us and Trencor, including matters 24 Table of Contents arising under our agreements with Trencor and its affiliates. In addition, to the extent that some of these directors may own shares in Trencor, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Trencor than they do for us. Furthermore, Trencor, as a South African company, endorses for itself and for its subsidiaries, the Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct in the King II Report on Corporate Governance. The King II Report on Corporate Governance is a document promulgated by the South African Institute of Directors which, among other things, suggests that corporations in their corporate decision-making consider the following stakeholders in addition to the owners of shares: parties who contract with the enterprise; parties who have a non-contractual nexus with the enterprise (including civic society and the environment); and the state. Trencor may seek to or be required to impose these corporate governance practices on us, which may result in constraints on management and may involve significant costs. Your interests as a holder of our common shares may not align with the interests of Trencor and its affiliates and shareholders. We are a holding company with no material direct operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries, which own our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to, or our board may exercise its discretion not to, pay dividends on our common shares. Our ability to issue securities in the future may be materially constrained by Trencor’s South African currency restrictions and JSE Listings Requirements. Trencor, a South African company listed on the JSE, has beneficiary interest in a majority of our share capital. Six of our eleven directors are also directors of Trencor. Both South African exchange control authorities and the JSE impose certain restrictions on Trencor. South Africa’s exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from South Africa. These restrictions require Trencor to obtain approval from South African exchange control authorities before engaging in transactions that would result in dilution of their share interest in us below certain thresholds, whether through their sale of their own shareholdings or through their approval of our issuance of new shares. The exchange control authorities may decide not to grant such approval if a proposed transaction were to dilute Trencor’s beneficiary interest in us below certain levels. While the South African government has, to some extent, relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the future. The above requirements could restrict or limit our ability to issue new shares. In addition, Trencor is required to comply with JSE Listings Requirements in connection with its holding or sale of our common shares. Trencor currently has an indirect beneficiary interest in 62.1% of our issued and outstanding shares. The above requirements could limit our financial flexibility by, among other things, impacting our future ability to raise funds through the issuance of securities, preventing or limiting the use of our common shares as consideration in acquisitions, and limiting our use of option grants and restricted share grants to our directors, officers and other employees as incentives to improve the financial performance of our company. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our subsidiaries, except Textainer Equipment Management (U.S.) Limited, are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. A substantial portion of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside of the U.S. In addition, most of our directors are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the 25 Table of Contents assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our non-U.S. subsidiaries, or our directors, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws, or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, under New York Stock Exchange rules, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted by the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) to comply with Bermuda corporate governance practice in lieu of complying with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. This means that we are not required to comply with NYSE requirements that: • the board of directors consists of a majority of independent directors; • independent directors meet in regularly scheduled executive sessions; • the audit committee satisfy NYSE standards for independence (although we must still comply with independence standards pursuant to Rule 10A-3 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)); • the audit committee have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • we have a nominating and corporate governance committee composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • we have a compensation committee composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • we establish corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct; • our shareholders approve any equity compensation plans; and • there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. Our board of directors has adopted an audit committee charter, a compensation committee charter and a nominating and governance committee charter. However, we use some of the exemptions available to a foreign private issuer. As a result, our board of directors may not consist of a majority of independent directors and our compensation committee may not consist of any or a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Market interest rates may have an effect on the trading value of our common shares. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell our common shares is our dividend rate, as a percentage of our share price, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective investors may demand a higher dividend yield on our common shares or seek alternative investments paying higher dividends or interest. As a result, interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions can affect the market value of our common shares. 26 Table of Contents If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they change their financial estimates or investment recommendation, the price of our common shares could decline. The trading market for our common shares relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control or influence the decisions or opinions of these analysts and analysts may not cover us. If any analyst who covers us changes his or her financial estimates or investment recommendation, the price of our common shares could decline. If any analyst ceases coverage of our company or our industry, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our share price to decline. Required public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies have increased our costs, and we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the other rules and regulations of the SEC. The SEC, as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules that require us to conduct an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on the effectiveness of such internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may not be able to meet the regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are applicable to us as a public company. If we are not able to meet the regulatory and reporting requirements that are applicable to us as a public company, our independent auditors may not be able to attest as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. This result may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, and could lead to a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We could also suffer a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements if we disclose material weaknesses in our internal controls. In addition, if we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company. Any failure by us to timely provide the required financial information could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our common shares. Furthermore, testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. These regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, we expect the regulations to make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. Our failure to comply with required public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and regulations could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and the price of our common shares. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. If we do not maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. We can also be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities for failure to comply with public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and regulations. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm. If we 27 Table of Contents fail to maintain the adequacy of internal controls over financial accounting, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. Although our management has concluded that adequate internal control procedures are currently in place, no system of internal controls can provide absolute assurance that the financial statements are accurate and free of material errors. As a result, the risk exists that our internal controls may not detect all errors or omissions in the financial statements. A large number of shares that had been previously restricted from immediate resale are eligible for future sale into the public market. We may also issue additional shares without your approval. This could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares by our existing shareholders, or the perception that such sales will occur, may cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. Upon completion of our initial public offering in October 2007, our officers, directors and existing pre-IPO shareholders representing 96.6% of the pre-initial public offering shares were subject to lock-up agreements providing that they would not sell any of our common shares until 180 days from the date of our initial public offering, without the prior written consent of the representatives of the underwriters. Prohibitions on selling shares under these lock-up agreements expired in April 2008. On December 10, 2007, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), to register the common shares that we have subsequently issued and may issue in the future under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan, and such registration statement became effective upon filing. We have reserved a maximum of 3,808,371 common shares for issuance under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan. The common shares to be issued pursuant to awards under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan will be freely tradable under the Securities Act. Further, effective February 15, 2008, the SEC revised Rule 144, which provides a safe harbor for the resale of restricted securities, shortening applicable holding periods and easing other restrictions and requirements for resales by our non-affiliates, thereby enabling an increased number of our outstanding restricted shares to be resold sooner into the public market. If, as a result of the foregoing, a large number of our common shares are sold into the public market, or if there is an expectation of such sales, these sales or expectations of these sales, could reduce the trading price of our common shares and impede our ability to raise future capital. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Bermuda law and our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These include provisions: • requiring the approval of not less than 66% of our issued and outstanding voting shares for a merger or amalgamation transaction that has not been approved by our board of directors; • prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met; • authorizing our board of directors to issue blank-check preference shares without shareholder approval; • establishing a classified board with staggered three-year terms; • only authorizing the removal of directors (i) for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting or (ii) without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 66% of the common shares then issued and outstanding and entitled to vote on the resolution; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors. 28 Table of Contents These provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and/or our board of directors. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. As a shareholder of our company, you may have greater difficulties in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (the “Companies Act”), applies to our company and differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. 