ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should be aware that any purchase of our securities involves certain risks, including those described below, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We do not make, nor have we authorized any other person to make, any representation about the future market value of our common stock. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Strategy Oil and natural gas prices are volatile. An extended decline in the prices of oil and natural gas would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, ability to meet our financial obligations and results of operations. Our future financial condition, revenues, results of operations, profitability and future growth, and the carrying value of our oil and natural gas properties depend primarily on the prices we receive for our oil and natural gas production. Our ability to maintain or increase our borrowing capacity and to obtain additional capital on attractive terms also substantially depends upon oil and natural gas prices. These factors include: • relatively minor changes in the supply of or the demand for oil and natural gas; • the condition of the United States and worldwide economies; • market uncertainty; • the level of consumer product demand; • weather conditions in the United States; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • domestic and foreign governmental regulation and taxes, including price controls adopted by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; • political conditions or hostilities in oil and natural gas producing regions, including the Middle East and South America; • the price and level of foreign imports of oil and natural gas; and • the price and availability of alternate fuel sources. We cannot predict future oil and natural gas prices and such prices may decline. An extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity, ability to meet our financial obligations and results of operations. Lower prices have reduced and may further reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically and has required and may require us to record additional ceiling test write-downs. Substantially all of our oil and natural gas sales are made in the spot market or pursuant to contracts based on spot market prices. Our sales are not made pursuant to long-term fixed price contracts. To attempt to reduce our price risk, we periodically enter into hedging transactions with respect to a portion of our expected future production. We cannot assure you that such transactions will reduce the risk or minimize the effect of any decline in oil or natural gas prices. Any substantial or extended decline in the prices of or demand for oil or natural gas would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity, ability to meet our financial obligations and results of operations. Operating hazards may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our operations are subject to risks inherent in the oil and natural gas industry, such as: • unexpected drilling conditions including blowouts, cratering and explosions; • uncontrollable flows of oil, natural gas or well fluids; • equipment failures, fires or accidents; • pollution and other environmental risks; and • shortages in experienced labor or shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. 19 These risks could result in substantial losses to us from injury and loss of life, damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution and other environmental damage and suspension of operations. These regulations may, in certain circumstances, impose strict liability for pollution damage or result in the interruption or termination of operations. Our actual production, revenues and expenditures related to our reserves are likely to differ from our estimates of proved reserves. We may experience production that is less than estimated, and drilling costs that are greater than estimated, in our reserve report. These differences may be material. Although the estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows attributable to those reserves were prepared by Ryder Scott Company, L.P., our independent petroleum and geological engineers, we are ultimately responsible for the disclosure of those estimates. Reserve engineering is a complex and subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and natural gas reserves and of future net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including: • historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing wells; • the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; • assumptions concerning future oil and natural gas prices; and • assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance and excise taxes, development costs and work-over and remedial costs. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: • the quantities of oil and natural gas that are ultimately recovered; • the production and operating costs incurred; • the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and • future oil and natural gas sales prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. Historically, there has been a difference between our actual production and the production estimated in a prior year’s reserve report. Our 2014 production was approximately 58% greater than amounts projected in our August 31, 2013 reserve report. We cannot assure you that these differences will not be material in the future. Approximately 60% of our estimated proved reserves at August 31, 2014 are undeveloped and 12% were developed, non-producing. Recovery of undeveloped reserves requires significant capital expenditures and successful drilling operations. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop and produce our reserves. Although we have prepared estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and the costs associated with these reserves in accordance with industry standards, we cannot assure you that the estimated costs are accurate, that development will occur as scheduled or that the actual results will be as estimated. In addition, the recovery of undeveloped reserves is generally subject to the approval of development plans and related activities by applicable state and/or federal agencies. Statutes and regulations may affect both the timing and quantity of recovery of estimated reserves. Such statutes and regulations, and their enforcement, have changed in the past and may change in the future, and may result in upward or downward revisions to current estimated proved reserves. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted cash flows is the current market value of our estimated oil and natural gas reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the standardized measure of discounted cash flows from proved reserves at August 31, 2014 is based on twelve-month average prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. These prices and costs will change and may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Any changes in consumption by oil and natural gas purchasers or in governmental regulations or taxation may also affect actual future net cash flows. The timing of both the production and the expenses from the development and production of oil and natural gas properties will affect the timing of actual future net cash flows from proved reserves and their present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating standardized measure of discounted cash flows for reporting requirements in compliance with accounting requirements is not necessarily the most appropriate discount factor. The effective interest rate at various times and the risks associated with our operations or the oil and natural gas industry in general will affect the accuracy of the 10% discount factor. 20 Seasonal weather conditions and wildlife restrictions could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. Our operations could be adversely affected by weather conditions and wildlife restrictions. In the Rocky Mountains, certain activities cannot be conducted as effectively during the winter months. Winter and severe weather conditions limit and may temporarily halt the ability to operate during such conditions. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay or temporarily halt our operations and materially increase our operation and capital costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a critical habitat designation for certain wildlife under the U.S. Endangered Species Act or similar state laws could result in material restrictions to public or private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or development. The listing of certain species as threatened and endangered could have a material impact on our operations in areas where such listed species are found. Our future success depends upon our ability to find, develop, produce and acquire additional oil and natural gas reserves that are economically recoverable. In order to maintain or increase our reserves, we must constantly locate and develop or acquire new oil and natural gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. We must do this even during periods of low oil and natural gas prices when it is difficult to raise the capital necessary to finance our exploration, development and acquisition activities. Without successful exploration, development or acquisition activities, our reserves and revenues will decline rapidly. We may not be able to find and develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have access to necessary financing for these activities, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may not be able to obtain adequate financing when the need arises to execute our long-term operating strategy. Our ability to execute our long-term operating strategy is highly dependent on our having access to capital when the need arises. We historically have addressed our long-term liquidity needs through credit facilities, issuances of equity and debt securities, sales of assets, joint ventures and cash provided by operating activities. We will examine the following alternative sources of long-term capital as dictated by current economic conditions: • borrowings from banks or other lenders; • the sale of non-core assets; • the issuance of debt securities; • the sale of common stock, preferred stock or other equity securities; • joint venture financing; and • production payments. The availability of these sources of capital when the need arises will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include general economic and financial market conditions, oil and natural gas prices, our credit ratings, interest rates, market perceptions of us or the oil and gas industry, our market value and our operating performance. We may be unable to execute our long-term operating strategy if we cannot obtain capital from these sources when the need arises. Factors beyond our control affect our ability to market oil and natural gas. The availability of markets and the volatility of product prices are beyond our control and represent a significant risk. The marketability of our production depends upon the availability and capacity of natural gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. The unavailability or lack of capacity of these systems and facilities could result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Our ability to market oil and natural gas also depends on other factors beyond our control. These factors include: • the level of domestic production and imports of oil and natural gas; • the proximity of natural gas production to natural gas pipelines; • the availability of pipeline capacity; • the demand for oil and natural gas by utilities and other end users; • the availability of alternate fuel sources; • the effect of inclement weather; • state and federal regulation of oil and natural gas marketing; and • federal regulation of natural gas sold or transported in interstate commerce. If these factors were to change dramatically, our ability to market oil and natural gas or obtain favorable prices for our oil and natural gas could be adversely affected. 21 Oil and natural gas prices may be affected by local and regional factors. The prices to be received for our production will be determined to a significant extent by factors affecting the local and regional supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, including the adequacy of the pipeline and processing infrastructure in the region to process, and transport, our production and that of other producers. Those factors result in basis differentials between the published indices generally used to establish the price received for regional natural gas production and the actual (frequently lower) price we receive for our production. Lower oil and natural gas prices may cause us to record ceiling test write-downs, which could negatively impact our results of operations. We use the full cost method of accounting to account for our oil and natural gas operations. Accordingly, we capitalize the cost to acquire, explore for and develop oil and natural gas properties. Under full cost accounting rules, the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties may not exceed a “full cost ceiling” which is based upon the present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved reserves, including the effect of hedges in place, discounted at 10%, plus the lower of cost or fair market value of unproved properties. If at the end of any fiscal period we determine that the net capitalized costs of oil and natural gas properties exceed the full cost ceiling, we must charge the amount of the excess to earnings in the period then ended. This is called a “ceiling test write-down.” This charge does not impact cash flow from operating activities, but does reduce our net income and stockholders’ equity. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and natural gas properties is not reversible at a later date. We review the net capitalized costs of our properties quarterly, using a single price based on the beginning of the month average of oil and natural gas prices for the prior 12 months. We also assess investments in unproved properties periodically to determine whether impairment has occurred. The risk that we will be required to further write down the carrying value of our oil and gas properties increases when oil and natural gas prices are low or volatile. In addition, write-downs may occur if we experience substantial downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves or our unproved property values, or if estimated future development costs increase. We may experience further ceiling test write-downs or other impairments in the future. In addition, any future ceiling test cushion would be subject to fluctuation as a result of acquisition or divestiture activity. We cannot control the activities on properties we do not operate and we are unable to ensure the proper operation and profitability of these non-operated properties. We do not operate all of the properties in which we have an interest. As a result, we have limited ability to exercise influence over, and control the risks associated with, the operation of these properties. The success and timing of drilling and development activities on our partially owned properties operated by others therefore will depend upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the operator’s: • timing and amount of capital expenditures; • expertise and diligence in adequately performing operations and complying with applicable agreements; • financial resources; • inclusion of other participants in drilling wells; and • use of technology. As a result of any of the above or an operator’s failure to act in ways that are in our best interest, our allocated production revenues and results of operations could be adversely affected. We are dependent on third party pipeline, trucking and rail systems to transport our production and, in the Wattenberg Field, gathering and processing systems to prepare our production. These systems have limited capacity and at times have experienced service disruptions. Curtailments, disruptions or lack of availability in these systems interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. Market conditions or the unavailability of satisfactory oil and natural gas transportation arrangements may hinder our access to oil and natural gas markets or delay our production. The marketability of our oil and natural gas and production, particularly from our wells located in the Wattenberg Field, depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of gathering, processing, pipeline, trucking and rail systems. The amount of oil and natural gas that can be produced and sold is subject to limitation in certain circumstances, such as pipeline interruptions due to scheduled and unscheduled maintenance, excessive pressure, physical damage to the gathering or transportation system, or lack of contracted capacity on such systems. A portion of our production may also be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for numerous other reasons, including as a result of accidents, excessive pressures, maintenance, weather, field labor issues or disruptions in service. Curtailments and disruptions in these systems may last from a few days to several months. We may be required to shut in wells due to lack of a market or inadequacy or unavailability of crude oil or natural gas pipelines or gathering system capacity. These risks are greater for us than for some of our competitors because our operations are focused on areas where there is currently a substantial amount of development activity, which increases the likelihood that there will be periods of time in which there is insufficient midstream capacity to accommodate the resulting increases in production. For example, the gas gathering systems serving the Wattenberg Field recently experienced high line pressures reducing capacity and causing gas production to either be shut in or flared. In addition, we might voluntarily curtail production in response to market conditions. Any significant curtailment in gathering, processing or pipeline system capacity, significant delay in the construction of necessary facilities or lack of availability of transport, would interfere with our ability to market the oil and natural gas we produce, and could materially and adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations, and the expected results of our drilling program. We may face similar risks in other areas. 22 We face strong competition from larger oil and natural gas companies that may negatively affect our ability to carry on operations. We operate in the highly competitive areas of oil and natural gas exploration, development and production. Factors that affect our ability to compete successfully in the marketplace include: • the availability of funds for, and information relating to, a properties; • the standards established by us for the minimum projected return on investment; and • the transportation of natural gas and crude oil. Our competitors include major integrated oil companies, substantial independent energy companies, affiliates of major interstate and intrastate pipelines and national and local natural gas gatherers, many of which possess greater financial and other resources than we do. If we are unable to successfully compete against our competitors, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be unable to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Acquisitions of oil and gas businesses and properties have been an important element of our business, and we will continue to pursue acquisitions in the future. In the last several years, we have pursued and consummated acquisitions that have provided us opportunities to grow our production and reserves. Although we regularly engage in discussions with, and submit proposals to, acquisition candidates, suitable acquisitions may not be available in the future on reasonable terms. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may be unable to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, effectively integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Negotiations of potential acquisitions and the integration of acquired business operations may require a disproportionate amount of management’s attention and our resources. Even if we complete additional acquisitions, continued acquisition financing may not be available or available on reasonable terms, any new businesses may not generate revenues comparable to our existing business, the anticipated cost efficiencies or synergies may not be realized and these businesses may not be integrated successfully or operated profitably. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and to assess possible environmental liabilities. Our inability to successfully identify, execute or effectively integrate future acquisitions may negatively affect our results of operations. Even though we perform due diligence reviews (including a review of title and other records) of the major properties we seek to acquire that we believe is consistent with industry practices, these reviews are inherently incomplete. It is generally not feasible for us to perform an in-depth review of every individual property and all records involved in each acquisition. However, even an in-depth review of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and potential. Even when problems are identified, we may assume certain environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with the acquired businesses and properties. The discovery of any material liabilities associated with our acquisitions could harm our results of operations. In addition, acquisitions of businesses may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in additional leverage or dilution of ownership. Our credit facility contains certain covenants that limit, or which may have the effect of limiting, among other things acquisitions, capital expenditures, the sale of assets and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. 23 Declining general economic, business or industry conditions may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Concerns over global economic conditions, energy costs, geopolitical issues, inflation, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased economic uncertainty and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile prices of oil and natural gas, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a recession. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse impact on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad continues to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could impact the price at which we can sell our oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, affect the ability of our vendors, suppliers and customers to continue operations and ultimately adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. We may incur substantial costs to comply with the various federal, state and local laws and regulations that affect our oil and natural gas operations. We are affected significantly by a substantial amount of governmental regulations that increase costs related to the drilling of wells and the transportation and processing of oil and natural gas. It is possible that the number and extent of these regulations, and the costs to comply with them, will increase significantly in the future. In Colorado, for example, significant governmental regulations have been adopted that are primarily driven by concerns about wildlife and the environment. These government regulatory requirements may result in substantial costs that are not possible to pass through to our customers and which could impact the profitability of our operations. Our oil and natural gas operations are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the release or disposal of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to health and safety, land use, environmental protection or the oil and natural gas industry generally. Legislation affecting the industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing our regulatory burden. Compliance with such laws and regulations often increases our cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases our profitability. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the incurrence of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of cease and desist orders. The environmental laws and regulations to which we are subject may, among other things: • require applying for and receiving a permit before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. Changes in environmental laws and regulations occur frequently, and any changes that result in more stringent or costly waste handling, storage, transport, disposal or cleanup requirements could require us to make significant expenditures to maintain compliance, and may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations, competitive position or financial condition. Over the years, we have owned or leased numerous properties for oil and natural gas activities upon which petroleum hydrocarbons or other materials may have been released by us or by predecessor property owners or lessees who were not under our control. Under applicable environmental laws and regulations, including CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws, we could be held strictly liable for the removal or remediation of previously released materials or property contamination at such locations regardless of whether we were responsible for the release or whether the operations at the time of the release were standard industry practice. New environmental legislation or regulatory initiatives, including those related to hydraulic fracturing, could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. We are subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws and regulations concerning health, safety, and environmental protection. Government authorities frequently add to those requirements, and both oil and gas development generally and hydraulic fracturing specifically are receiving increasing regulatory attention. Our operations utilize hydraulic fracturing, an important and commonly used process in the completion of oil and natural gas wells in low-permeability formations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, proppant, and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate hydrocarbon production. 24 Recently, the EPA issued final rules that establish new air emission controls for natural gas processing operations, as well as for oil and natural gas production. Among other things, the latter rules cover the completion and operation of hydraulically fractured gas wells and associated equipment. After several parties challenged the new air regulations in court, the EPA reconsidered certain requirements and is evaluating whether reconsideration of other issues is warranted. At this point, we cannot predict the final regulatory requirements or the cost to comply with such air regulatory requirements. Some activists have attempted to link hydraulic fracturing to various environmental problems, including potential adverse effects to drinking water supplies as well as migration of methane and other hydrocarbons. As a result, the federal government is studying the environmental risks associated with hydraulic fracturing and evaluating whether to adopt additional regulatory requirements. For example, the EPA has commenced a multi-year study of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources, and the draft results are expected to be released for public and peer review in 2014. In addition, on October 21, 2011, the EPA announced its intention to propose regulations by 2014 under the federal Clean Water Act to regulate wastewater discharges from hydraulic fracturing and other natural gas production. The EPA also has prepared draft guidance for issuing underground injection permits that would regulate hydraulic fracturing using diesel fuel, where EPA has permitting authority under the SDWA; this guidance eventually could encourage other regulatory authorities to adopt to permitting and other restrictions on the use of hydraulic fracturing. The U.S. Department of Interior, moreover, has proposed new rules for hydraulic fracturing activities on federal lands that, in general, would cover disclosure of fracturing fluid components, well bore integrity, and handling of flowback water. And the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration has proposed stricter standards for worker exposure to silica, which would apply to use of sand as a proppant for hydraulic fracturing. In the United States Congress, bills have been introduced that would amend the SDWA to eliminate an existing exemption for certain hydraulic fracturing activities from the definition of "underground injection," thereby requiring the oil and natural gas industry to obtain SDWA permits for fracturing not involving diesel fuels, and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the process. If adopted, such legislation could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level, but some form of chemical disclosure is already required by most oil and gas producing states. At this time, it is not clear what action, if any, the United States Congress will take on hydraulic fracturing. Apart from these ongoing federal initiatives, state governments where we operate have moved to impose stricter requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other aspects of oil and gas production. Colorado, for example, comprehensively updated its oil and gas regulations in 2008 and adopted significant additional amendments in 2011 and 2013. Among other things, the updated and amended regulations require operators to reduce methane emissions associated with hydraulic fracturing, compile and report additional information regarding well bore integrity, publicly disclose the chemical ingredients used in hydraulic fracturing, increase the minimum distance between occupied structures and oil and gas wells, undertake additional mitigation for nearby residents, and implement additional groundwater testing. The State is also considering new regulations for air emissions from oil and gas operations as well as potential legislation increasing the monetary penalties for regulatory violations. Additionally, local governments are adopting new requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other oil and gas operations, including local county and city governments in Colorado. The adoption of future federal, state or local laws or implementing regulations imposing new environmental obligations on, or otherwise limiting, our operations could make it more difficult and more expensive to complete oil and natural gas wells, increase our costs of compliance and doing business, delay or prevent the development of certain resources (including especially shale formations that are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing), or alter the demand for and consumption of our products and services. We cannot assure you that any such outcome would not be material, and any such outcome could have a material and adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. Any local moratoria or bans on our activities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some local governments are adopting new requirements on hydraulic fracturing and other oil and gas operations. Some counties in Colorado, for instance, have amended their land use regulations to impose new requirements on oil and gas development, while other local governments have entered memoranda of agreement with oil and gas producers to accomplish the same objective. Beyond that, in 2012, Longmont, Colorado prohibited the use of hydraulic fracturing. The oil and gas industry and the State are challenging that ban, and the authority of local jurisdictions to regulate oil and gas development, in court. In November 2013, four other Colorado cities and counties passed voter initiatives either placing a moratorium on hydraulic fracturing or banning new oil and gas development. These initiatives too are the subject of pending legal challenge. While these initiatives cover areas with little recent or ongoing oil and gas development, they could lead opponents of hydraulic fracturing to push for statewide referendums, especially in Colorado. If we are required to cease operating in any of the areas in which we now operate as the result of bans or moratoria on drilling or related oilfield services activities, it could have a material effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Environmental compliance costs and environmental liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operations. Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. These laws and regulations may: • require the acquisition of permits before drilling commences; • restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment from drilling and production activities; • limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; • require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells; and • impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations. The trend toward stricter standards in environmental legislation and regulation is likely to continue. The enactment of stricter legislation or the adoption of stricter regulations could have a significant impact on our operating costs, as well as on the oil and natural gas industry in general. Our operations could result in liability for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. We could also be liable for environmental damages caused by previous property owners. As a result, substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities may be incurred which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for our operations, including limited coverage for sudden and accidental environmental damages, but this insurance may not extend to the full potential liability that could be caused by sudden and accidental environmental damages and further may not cover environmental damages that occur over time. Accordingly, we may be subject to liability or may lose the ability to continue exploration or production activities upon substantial portions of our properties if certain environmental damages occur. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 imposes a variety of regulations on “responsible parties” related to the prevention of oil spills. The implementation of new, or the modification of existing, environmental laws or regulations, including regulations promulgated pursuant to the Oil Pollution Act, could have a material adverse impact on us. The adoption and implementation of new statutory and regulatory requirements for derivative transactions could have an adverse impact on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business and increase the working capital requirements to conduct these activities. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was signed into law on July 21, 2010, establishes, among other provisions, federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act also establishes margin requirements and certain transaction clearing and trade execution requirements. On October 18, 2011, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (the "CFTC") approved regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets, which were successfully challenged in federal district court by the Securities Industry Financial Markets Association and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association and largely vacated by the court. The CFTC has filed a notice of appeal with respect to this ruling. Under CFTC final rules promulgated under the Dodd-Frank Act, we believe our derivatives activity will qualify for the non-financial, commercial end-user exception, which exempts derivatives intended to hedge or mitigate commercial risk from the mandatory swap clearing requirement. The Dodd-Frank Act may also require us to comply with margin requirements in our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to separate entities, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivative as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations, our results of operations may be more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the Dodd-Frank Act was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows 26 Proposed changes to U.S. tax laws, if adopted, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. From time to time legislative proposals are made that would, if enacted, make significant changes to U.S. tax laws. These proposed changes have included, among others, eliminating the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs, eliminating the deduction from income for domestic production activities relating to oil and natural gas exploration and development, repealing the percentage depletion allowance for oil and natural gas properties and extending the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Such proposed changes in the U.S. tax laws, if adopted, or other similar changes that reduce or eliminate deductions currently available with respect to oil and natural gas exploration and development, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our indebtedness may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to operate our business, remain in compliance with debt covenants and make payments on our debt. As of August 31, 2014 the aggregate amount of our outstanding indebtedness, net of cash on hand, was $2.2 million, which could have important consequences for you, including the following: • the covenants contained in our debt agreements limit our ability to borrow money in the future for acquisitions, capital expenditures or to meet our operating expenses or other general corporate obligations and may limit our flexibility in operating our business; • the amount of our interest expense may increase because certain of our borrowings in the future may be at variable rates of interest, which, if interest rates increase, could result in higher interest expense; • we may have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our industry or the economy in general, especially extended or further declines in oil and natural gas prices; and • our debt level could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulation. We cannot be certain that our cash flow from operations will be sufficient to allow us to pay the principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough cash to service our debt, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity. We may not be able to refinance our debt, sell assets, borrow more money or raise equity on terms acceptable to us, if at all. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control, and any failure to meet our debt obligations could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory conditions and other factors that are beyond our control, including the prices that we receive for our oil and natural gas production. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations, we may be forced to reduce our planned capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional equity or debt capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure you that any of these remedies could, if necessary, be affected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, any failure to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness on acceptable terms. Our cash flow and capital resources may be insufficient for payment of interest on and principal of our debt in the future and any such alternative measures may be unsuccessful or may not permit us to meet scheduled debt service obligations, which could cause us to default on our obligations and could impair our liquidity. Restrictive debt covenants could limit our growth and our ability to finance our operations, fund our capital needs, respond to changing conditions and engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. Our credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that, among other things, restrict or limit our ability to: 27 • pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock or issue preferred stock; • repurchase, redeem or retire our capital stock or subordinated debt; • make certain loans and investments; • sell assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • create or assume certain liens on our assets; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • merge or to enter into other business combination transactions; or • engage in certain other corporate activities. Also, our credit facility requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios and satisfy certain financial condition tests. Our ability to comply with these ratios and financial condition tests may be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet these ratios and financial condition tests. These financial ratio restrictions and financial condition tests could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general or otherwise conduct necessary corporate activities. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise because of the limitations that the restrictive covenants under our credit facility. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with the required financial ratios or financial condition tests could result in a default under our credit facility. A default, if not cured or waived, could result in all indebtedness outstanding under our credit facility to become immediately due and payable. If that should occur, we may not be able to pay all such debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were then available, it may not be on terms that are acceptable to us. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could accelerate the maturity of the debt or proceed against any collateral granted to them to secure such defaulted debt. Our two most senior executives may allocate some portion of their time to other business interests, which could have a negative impact on our operations. Our two most senior executives have other business interests to which they allocate a portion of their professional time. Because of this, their employment agreements provide that they are only obligated to devote eighty percent of their time to our affairs. While in the past they have devoted substantially all of their time to our business, they could allocate more of their time to these other interests, which could have a negative impact on our operations. Our disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect potential acts of fraud. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC rules and forms. Our management, including our Co-Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officer, believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, they cannot provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company have been prevented or detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by an unauthorized override of the controls. The design of any systems of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in a cost effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting may have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective now or in any future period, or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. 28 Risks Relating to our Common Stock We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is restricted. Since inception, we have not paid any cash dividends on common stock. Cash dividends are restricted under the terms of our credit facility and we presently intend to continue the policy of using retained earnings for expansion of our business. Any future dividends also may be restricted by our then-existing debt agreements. Our stock price could be volatile, which could cause you to lose part or all of your investment. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In particular, the market price of our common stock, like that of the securities of other energy companies, has been and may continue to be highly volatile. During the year ended August 31, 2014, the sales price of our stock ranged from a low of $8.11 per share (on January 6, 2014) to a high of $14.11 per share (on June 25, 2014). Factors such as announcements concerning changes in prices of oil and natural gas, the success of our acquisition, exploration and development activities, the availability of capital, and economic and other external factors, as well as period-to-period fluctuations and financial results, may have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock. From time to time, there has been limited trading volume in our common stock. In addition, there can be no assurance that there will continue to be a trading market or that any securities research analysts will continue to provide research coverage with respect to our common stock. It is possible that such factors will adversely affect the market for our common stock. The market valuation of our business may fluctuate due to factors beyond our control and the value of the investment of our stockholders may fluctuate correspondingly. The market valuation of energy companies, such as us, frequently fluctuate due to factors unrelated to the past or present operating performance of such companies. Our market valuation may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • Changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • Fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes, particularly among securities of energy companies; • Changes in market valuations of similar companies; • Announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new acquisitions, discoveries, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • Variations in our quarterly operating results; • Fluctuations in oil and natural gas prices; • Loss of a major customer; • Loss of a relationship with a partner; and • Additions or departures of key personnel. As a result, the value of your investment in us may fluctuate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 