Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the material risks described below, together with the other information contained in this report, before making a decision to invest in our securities. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition, and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history or revenues and, accordingly, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a business combination with one or more target businesses as described in this report. We are currently in the process of evaluating and identifying prospective target businesses concerning a business combination but may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public stockholders may receive less than $10.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination within the prescribed time frames and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per share liquidating distribution may be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses, and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. If we were unable to conclude an initial business combination and expended all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of income taxes and other tax obligations payable on such interest and net of up to $3.5 million in interest income on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund working capital requirements, the initial per share liquidation price would be $10.00. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait until January 23, 2010 or later before receiving liquidating distributions. We have until January 23, 2010 to complete a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to public stockholders prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where public stockholders have sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public stockholders be entitled to liquidating distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, public stockholders’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. 16 Table of Contents If we do not consummate a business combination prior to January 23, 2010 and dissolve, payments from the trust account to our public stockholders may be delayed. We currently believe that any dissolution and plan of distribution in connection with the expiration of the January 23, 2010 deadline would proceed in approximately the following manner: • Prior to such deadline, our board of directors will, consistent with its obligations described in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law, consider a resolution for us to dissolve and consider a plan of distribution which it may then vote to recommend to our stockholders; at such time it will also cause to be prepared a preliminary proxy statement setting out such plan of distribution as well as the board’s recommendation of such plan; • Upon such deadline, we would file our preliminary proxy statement with the SEC; • If the SEC does not review the preliminary proxy statement, then, 10 days following the passing of such deadline, we will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders, and 30 days following the passing of such deadline we will convene a meeting of our stockholders, at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution and plan of distribution; and • If the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution and plan of dissolution; and • If the SEC does review the preliminary proxy statement, we currently estimate that we will receive their comments 30 days following the passing of such deadline. We will mail the proxy statements to our stockholders following the conclusion of the comment and review process (the length of which we cannot predict with any certainty, and which may be substantial) and we will convene a meeting of our stockholders at which they will either approve or reject our dissolution and plan of distribution In the event we seek stockholder approval for our dissolution and plan of distribution and do not obtain such approval, we will nonetheless continue to pursue stockholder approval for our dissolution. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, it is intended that our powers following the expiration of the permitted time periods for consummating a business combination will automatically thereafter be limited to acts and activities relating to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation. Pursuant to the trust agreement governing the funds in our trust account, the funds held in our trust account may not be distributed except upon our dissolution and, unless and until such approval is obtained from our stockholders, the funds held in the trust account will not be released (other than in connection with the funding of working capital, a redemption, or a business combination as described elsewhere in this report). Consequently, holders of a majority of our outstanding stock must approve our dissolution in order to receive the funds held in our trust account and the funds will not be available for any other corporate purpose. We may proceed with a business combination even if public stockholders owning up to one share less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. We may proceed with a business combination as long as public stockholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, the public stockholders owning up to one share less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering may exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. While there are several other offerings similar to ours that include conversion provisions greater than 20%, a 20% threshold is customary and standard for offerings similar to ours. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will be easier for us to gain approval for an initial 17 Table of Contents business combination with a target business that you may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your conversion rights. Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise their conversion rights, we may need to arrange third-party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third-party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third-party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third-party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. You will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares of common stock into cash upon a business combination which the stockholder voted against and which is completed by us. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete a business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the U.S. securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5,000,000, and since we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules such as completely restricting the transferability of our securities, requiring us to complete a business combination within 18 months of the effective date of the initial registration statement, and restricting the use of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, we will be entitled to withdraw a certain amount of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account prior to the completion of a business combination, and we have a longer period of time to complete such a business combination than we would if we were subject to such rule. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are numerous blank check companies that are seeking to carry out a business plan similar to our business plan. Furthermore, there are offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings, and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings prior to our completion of a business combination. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to execute a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in trust are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least until January 23, 2010, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least until January 23, 2010, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay commitment fees for financing and fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We have not taken any steps toward selecting or hiring any consultants to assist us in our search for a target business. We could 18 Table of Contents also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds, whether as a result of our breach or otherwise, we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete a business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations, and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only approximately $100,000 will be available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes certain interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate, or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our founders to operate or we may be forced to liquidate. Our founders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders will be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage, and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest, or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over those of our public stockholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public stockholders, James N. Hauslein and Gaurav V. Burman have agreed that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. We believe that our board of directors may be obligated to pursue a potential claim for reimbursement from Messrs. Hauslein and Burman pursuant to the terms of their agreements with us if it would be in the best interests of our stockholders to pursue such a claim. Such a decision would be made by a majority of our disinterested directors based on the facts and circumstances at the time. Based on representations made to us by Messrs. Hauslein and Burman, we currently believe that they are capable of funding a shortfall in our trust account to satisfy their foreseeable indemnification obligations. However, we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. Furthermore, our belief is based on our expectation that their indemnification obligations will be minimal. Accordingly, if that expectation turns out to be incorrect, we cannot assure you that such individuals will be able to satisfy those obligations or that the proceeds in the trust account will not be reduced by such claims. Furthermore, Messrs. Hauslein and Burman will not have any personal liability (1) as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (including a prospective target business), even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid or unenforceable, and (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $10.00 per share. 19 Table of Contents Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until January 23, 2010. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended that provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Sections 280 through 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after January 23, 2010 and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims, and (iii) all claims that may potentially be brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could potentially be brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to those third parties by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after January 23, 2010, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to, or distributions from, our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposed itself and our company to claims for punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the Securities Act with respect to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, we may redeem the warrants issued as a part of the units at any time after the warrants become exercisable in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption, if and only if the last sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. In addition, we may not redeem the warrants unless the warrants issued as part of the units sold in our initial public offering and the shares of common stock underlying those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to (i) exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. 20 Table of Contents Certain warrant holders are unlikely to receive direct notice of redemption of our warrants. We expect most purchasers of our warrants will hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently those holders are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If you fail to receive notice of redemption from a third party and your warrants are redeemed for nominal value, you will not have recourse against us. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her, or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant held by public stockholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, a registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant is effective and current. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our reasonable best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their warrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited, and such warrants may expire worthless. Such expiration would result in each holder paying the full unit purchase price solely for the share of common stock underlying the unit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the insider warrants may be exercisable for unregistered shares of common stock even if no registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the insider warrants is effective and current. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the common stock issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited, and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if the common stock issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry, geography, or target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry, geography, or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business that we may ultimately acquire. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry, geography, or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also 21 Table of Contents cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. We will not be required to obtain a fairness opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business unless the target business is affiliated with our officers, directors, special advisors, or existing stockholders. If we determine to enter into a business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our founders, we are required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm, that is a member of FINRA, that the business combination is fair to our unaffiliated stockholders from a financial point of view. The fair market value of a target business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, the values of comparable businesses, earnings and cash flow, and book value. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm, that is a member of FINRA, with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. In all other instances, we will have no obligation to obtain or provide you with a fairness opinion. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 300,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.001 per share, and 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.001 per share. There are currently 249,200,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after reservation for the issuance of the 25,800,000 shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and all of the 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this report, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; 22 Table of Contents • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, such debt could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach any covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will completely depend upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination depends upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that could adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting arrangements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for those persons to receive compensation following a business combination and, as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous for our stockholders. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting arrangements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. As a result, those individuals may have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous for our stockholders. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, which could cause conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial 23 Table of Contents amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our officers and directors and their affiliates may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors may in the future become, and James N. Hauslein and Gaurav V. Burman are now, affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. James N. Hauslein is an independent director of GLG Partners, Inc. and Liberty Acquisition Holdings Corp., each of which has the size and wherewithal to compete with us to acquire an entity. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. In addition, Promethean may encounter investment opportunities of interest to us. Promethean has agreed that it will provide us a right of first refusal with respect to any potential investment opportunity except (i) any investment in an entity incorporated or formed in the United Kingdom which does not exceed $100 million of equity by Promethean or (ii) any investment in an entity incorporated or formed in India which does not exceed $50 million of equity by Promethean India. However, we may have an interest in a transaction below these thresholds, and Promethean would not be obligated to present us with that transaction. We cannot assure you that any of the foregoing conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock issued prior to our initial public offering and some of them own insider warrants purchased in a private placement consummated concurrently with our initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidating distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own shares of our common stock that were issued prior to our January 2008 initial public offering. Additionally, certain of our officers and directors and their affiliates purchased insider warrants upon consummation of our initial public offering. Such individuals have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the shares acquired prior to our initial public offering, as well as the insider warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in our initial public offering or in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions, and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. The requirement that we complete a business combination by January 23, 2010 may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business combination during that time period so that they may get their out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed. Each of our founders may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such individual in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, as well as traveling to and from the offices, service centers, or similar locations of prospective target acquisitions to examine their operations. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money not held in trust. In the event that we do not effect a business combination by January 23, 2010, then any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money being held outside of the trust will not be repaid as we will liquidate at such time. On the other hand, if we complete a business combination within such time period, those expenses will be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers, who are also our directors, may have an incentive to approve and complete a business combination other than just what is in the best interest of our stockholders. 24 Table of Contents The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to a business combination. Additionally, in connection with our business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to depend solely upon a single business. Our business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of the sum of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions), although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive, and regulatory risks. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive, and regulatory risks, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, our profitability and results of operations could be harmed. The ability of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our founders) the right to have his, her, or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must 25 Table of Contents both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her, or its conversion rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third-party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third-party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the stockholder meeting relating to such business combination or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC, and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus may be unable to convert their shares. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control such as that public stockholders representing at least 30% of our shares issued in our initial public offering vote against the business combination and opt to have us redeem their stock even if a majority of our stockholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. We will depend on the limited funds available outside of the trust account and a portion of the interest earned on the trust account balance to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, approximately $100,000 will be available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes interest income of up to a maximum of $3.5 million, and amounts necessary to pay our income taxes, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate, or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow additional funds, which funds may not be available on attractive terms or at all. None of our officers or directors or any other person is obligated to lend us such funds. 26 Table of Contents Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements that are prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements that have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. The requirement that we complete a business combination by January 23, 2010 may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination. We will liquidate and promptly distribute only to our public stockholders on a pro rata basis the amount in our trust account (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors) plus any remaining net assets if we do not effect a business combination by January 23, 2010. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target business may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not complete a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to complete a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limit referenced above. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human, and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. The fact that only approximately one-half of the blank check companies that have gone public in the United States since August 2003 have either consummated a business combination or entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We have not taken any steps toward securing third-party financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, or at 27 Table of Contents all. Recent turmoil in the credit markets has greatly reduced the availability of debt financing. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors, or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. Companies with similar business plans to ours have had limited success in completing a business transaction and there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify or complete a business combination. Based upon publicly available information, as of October 28, 2007, we have identified 128 similarly structured companies that have gone public since August 2003, of which 61 have actually consummated a business combination, or announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination. The remaining companies have more than $7.8 billion of proceeds and are seeking to consummate business combinations. Furthermore, as of October 28, 2007, there were approximately 44 additional blank check companies that were still in registration but had not completed initial public offerings, which will have approximately $7.2 billion of proceeds upon completion of the offerings, and there are likely to be more blank check companies filing registration statements for initial public offerings prior to our completion of a business combination. The fact that only approximately one-half of such companies that have gone public since August 2003 have either completed a business combination or have entered into a definitive agreement for a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many privately held target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If we are unable to find a suitable target business within such time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We are dependent upon Mr. Hauslein and Mr. Burman and the loss of either of them could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals and, in particular, upon Mr. Hauslein and Mr. Burman. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Mr. Hauslein and Mr. Burman, at least until we have consummated a business combination. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, neither Mr. Hauslein nor Mr. Burman are required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, either of these individuals. The unexpected loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. Our founders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote. As of March 17, 2008, our founders, including all of our officers and directors, beneficially owned an aggregate of 20% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. Accordingly, our founders will likely continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. To our knowledge, none of our founders, including any of our officers or directors, has any present intention to purchase additional units or shares of common stock from us in private placements or from persons in the open market or private transactions. In the event that any founders acquire additional shares of our common stock, we anticipate that they would vote such shares in favor of our initial business combination. Thus, additional purchases of shares of our common stock by our officers or directors would likely allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination. Factors they would consider in making such 28 Table of Contents additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our common stock and that any such additional purchases would likely increase the chances that our initial business combination would be approved. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 20,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units sold in our initial public offering and also issued the insider warrants to purchase 5,800,000 shares of common stock. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our founders exercise their registration rights with respect to their initial shares or insider warrants and underlying securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our founders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their initial shares at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. Additionally, the purchasers of the insider warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their insider warrants and underlying shares of common stock at any time after we consummate a business combination. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 5,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,800,000 warrants (as well as 5,800,000 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional shares of common stock trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring a target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading, or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we will invest the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. 29 Table of Contents In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures, disclosure requirements, and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted funds. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations on currency conversion; • corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes, variations in tax laws as compared to the United States, and any specific U.S. federal income tax considerations and consequences relating to cross-border transactions; • currency fluctuations; • difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating an international operations; • transportation delays or interruptions and other effects of less developed infrastructures; • employment and severance issues, including possible employee turnover or labor unrest; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; and • political unrest, war, terrorism, or actual or perceived health risks. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations would suffer. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in the new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities, or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. Two of our five current directors, Gaurav V. Burman and Raj Mishra, currently reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to 30 Table of Contents enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers, or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties against our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may discourage a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. These provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties, and stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm issue an attestation report on its evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 