D. Risk Factors An investment in our capital stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our capital stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred net losses for certain periods in the past. We pay concession fees to airports for placing and operating our digital displays, to airlines for placing our programs on their digital TV screens and to airports and gas stations for placing and operating our advertisements on traditional media platforms such as light boxes and billboards. These fees constitute a significant part of our cost of revenues and are mostly fixed under the concession rights contracts with an escalation clause; payments are usually due three or six months in advance. However, our revenues may fluctuate significantly from period to period for various reasons. For instance, when new concession rights contracts are signed during a period, additional concession fees are incurred immediately, but it may take some time for us to create revenues from these concession rights contracts because it takes time to find advertisers for the time slots and locations made available under these new contracts. If our revenues decrease in a given period, we may be unable to reduce our cost of revenues as a significant part of our cost of revenues is fixed, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations and lead to a net loss for that period. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. We began our business operations in August 2005. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects. It is also difficult to evaluate the viability of our air travel advertising network because we do not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies using new forms of advertising media and entering new and rapidly evolving markets. Certain members of our senior management team have worked together for only a relatively short period of time and it may be difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness, on an individual or collective basis, and ability to address future challenges to our business. Because of our limited operating history, we may not be able to: preserve our market position in the air travel advertising market in China; manage our relationships with airports and airlines to retain existing concession rights contracts and obtain new concession rights contracts on commercially advantageous terms or at all; retain existing and acquire new advertisers and third party content providers; secure a sufficient number of low-cost digital frames and digital TV screens from our suppliers; manage our expanding operations, including effectively integrating acquired businesses; successfully expand into other advertising media platforms, including traditional media platforms in airports, gas station media platforms and outdoor media platforms; respond to competitive market conditions; respond to changes in the PRC regulatory regime; maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses; or attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel. If advertisers or the viewing public do not accept, or lose interest in, our air travel advertising network, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from our operating activities and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 5 The market for air travel advertising network in China is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. We compete for advertising spending with many forms of more established advertising media such as television, print media, Internet and other types of out-of-home advertising. Our success depends on the acceptance of our air travel advertising network by advertisers and their interest in this medium as a part of their advertising strategies. In this annual report, the term “advertisers” refer to the ultimate brand-owners whose brands and products are being publicized by our advertisements, including both advertisers that purchase advertisements directly from us and advertisers that do so through third-party advertising agencies. Our advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that consumers are not receptive to our media network or that our network is not a sufficiently effective advertising medium. If consumers find our network to be disruptive or intrusive, airports and airplane companies may refuse to allow us to operate our air travel advertising network in airports or to place our programs on airplanes, and our advertisers may reduce spending on our network. Air travel advertising is a relatively new concept in China and in the advertising industry generally. If we are not able to adequately track air traveler responses to our programs, in particular track the demographics of air travelers most receptive to air travel advertising, we will not be able to provide sufficient feedback and data to existing and potential advertisers to help us generate demand and determine pricing. Without improved market research, advertisers may reduce their use of air travel advertising and instead turn to more traditional forms of advertising that have more established and proven methods of tracking the effectiveness of advertisements. Demand for our advertising services and the resulting advertising spending by our advertisers may fluctuate from time to time, and our advertisers may reduce the money they spend to advertise on our network for any number of reasons. If a substantial number of our advertisers lose interest in advertising on our media network for these or other reasons or become unwilling to purchase advertising time slots or locations on our network, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flow to operate our business, and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by a significant or prolonged economic downturn in the level of consumer spending in the industries and markets served by our customers. Our business is affected by the demand for our advertising time slots from our customers, which is determined by the level of business activity and economic condition of our customers. The level of business activity of our customers is in turn determined by the level of consumer spending in the markets our customers serve. Therefore, our businesses and earnings are affected by general business and economic conditions in China and abroad. In 2010, the top three industries that advertise on our network were automobile, finance and high-end food and beverages, based on revenues derived from advertisers in these industries. Any significant or prolonged decline of the PRC and global economy will affect consumers’ disposable income and consumer spending in these industries, and lead to a decrease in demand for our services. On March 11, 2011, Japan experienced a severe earthquake, followed by deadly tsunamis that severely crippled a key nuclear plant and led to the release of dangerous levels of radiation. These events devastated large parts of Japan and negatively affected its economy, including its automobile industry and the extended supply chain. Effective on January 1, 2011, the City of Beijing started the new license-plate lottery measures under which the city issues 17,600 new plates each month in an effort to reduce traffic and pollution. Although the extent of these impacts on our business is hard to measure, to the extent that any decrease in supply or demand for our consumers’ products translates into a decline in the demand for our advertising time slots and services, our performance and business will be adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the provision of air travel advertising services. A contraction in the air travel advertising industry in China may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Substantially all of our historical revenues have been and a significant portion of our expected future revenues will be generated from the provision of air travel advertising services, in particular through the display of advertisements on digital frames located in airports and digital TV screens located in airports and on airplanes. Most of our traditional advertising media platforms, such as billboards and painted advertisement on gate bridges and light boxes, and other displays, such as logo displays and shuttle bus displays, are located in or near airports. A contraction in air travel advertising industry in China could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to carry out our operations as specified in existing concession rights contracts, retain or renew existing concession rights contracts or obtain new concession rights contracts on commercially advantageous terms, we may be unable to maintain or expand our network coverage and our costs may increase significantly in the future. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely upon our ability to provide a large air travel advertising network for the display of advertisements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to carry out our operations as specified in our concession rights contracts, and any failure to perform may damage our relationships with advertisers and advertising agencies and materially and negatively affect our business. 6 We may also be unable to retain or renew concession rights contracts when they expire. Most of our concession rights contracts to operate advertising media in airports and on airplanes typically have terms ranging from three to five years, with no automatic renewal provisions. As of December 31, 2010, we had in total approximately 37 concession rights contracts to be renewed in the next twelve months, with aggregated confession fees of approximately $50 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to renew any or all of these contracts when they expire, and the terms of any renewal may not be commercially advantageous to us. The concession fees that we incur under our concession rights contracts comprise a significant portion of our cost of revenues, but airports and airlines tend to increase concession fees over time, so as some of our concession rights contracts terminate, we may experience a significant increase in our costs of revenues when we renew these contracts. If we cannot pass increased concession costs onto our advertisers through rate increases, our earnings and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, most of our concession rights contracts to operate in airports and on airplanes contain provisions granting us certain exclusive concession rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain these exclusivity provisions when we renew these contracts. If we were to lose exclusivity, our advertisers may decide to advertise with our competitors or otherwise reduce their spending on our network and we may lose market share. Certain concession rights contracts allow the airports to terminate the contracts unilaterally without any compensation in certain circumstances. We cannot assure you that our concession rights contracts will not be terminated, whether with or without justification. In addition, most of our concession rights contracts were entered into with the advertising companies operated by or advertising agencies hired by airports or airline companies, and not with the airports or airline companies directly. Although these advertising companies and agents have generally assured us in writing that they have the rights to operate advertising media in airports or on airplanes and all of them have performed their contractual obligations, we cannot assure you that airports or airline companies will not challenge or revoke the contractual concession rights granted to us by their advertising companies or agents; if such challenges or revocations occur, our revenues and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to perform under existing concession rights contracts, retain existing concession rights contracts or obtain new concession rights contracts on commercially advantageous terms, we may be unable to maintain or expand our network coverage and our costs may increase significantly in the future. A significant portion of our revenues has been derived from the five largest airports and three largest airlines in China. If any of these airports or airlines experiences a material business disruption, we would likely incur substantial losses of revenues. We derived a significant portion of our total revenues in 2010 from the five largest airports in China: Beijing Capital International Airport, Guangzhou Baiyun International Airport, Shanghai Pudong International Airport, Shanghai Hongqiao Airport and Shenzhen International Airport. A material business disruption, major construction or renovation or natural disaster affecting any of the airports in our network could negatively affect our advertising media in such airport or materially limit where we can place our advertising media. In addition, we derived a significant portion of our advertising revenues in 2010 from the three largest domestic airlines in China. If any of these airlines loses market share and we are not able to add other airlines or increase the revenues generated from existing airlines in our network, our advertisers may decide to spend less on our advertising network. We expect these five airports and three airlines to continue to contribute a significant portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. If there were a material business disruption in any of these airports or airlines, we would likely lose a substantial amount of revenues. We depend on third-party program producers to provide the non-advertising content that we include in our programs. Failure to obtain high-quality content on commercially reasonable terms could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network, harm our reputation and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The programs on the majority of our digital TV screens include both advertising and non-advertising content. Third-party content providers such as China International TV Corporation, Shanghai Media Group and various local television stations and television production companies provide substantially all of the non-advertising content played over our network. In November 2010, we entered into a strategic partnership with China Central Television International Mobile Media Ltd., or CCTV Mobile Media, a subsidiary of China Central Television to operate a TV channel of CCTV Mobile Media, or CCTV Air Channel, to broadcast TV programs in our digital TV screens located in airports. The partnership agreement has a term of 15 years until November 28, 2025. 7 There is no assurance that we will be able to renew these contracts or obtain non-advertising content on satisfactory terms, or at all. In addition, some of the third-party content providers that currently do not charge us for their content may do so in the future. To make our programs more attractive, we must continue to secure contracts with these and other third-party content providers. If we fail to obtain a sufficient amount of high-quality content on a cost-effective basis, advertisers may find advertising on our network unattractive and may not wish to purchase advertising time slots or locations on our network, which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to attract advertisers to purchase advertising time on our advertising network, we will be unable to maintain or increase our advertising fees, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow our profits. We believe our advertisers choose to advertise on our network in part based on the size of our network, the desirability of the locations where we have placed our digital frames, digital TV screens, light boxes and billboards and the attractiveness of our network content. The fees we charge for advertisements on our network depend on the size and quality of our network and advertiser demand. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of our displays, solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality air travel advertising provider, or obtain high-quality non-advertising content at commercially reasonable prices, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our network or to pay the levels of advertising fees we require to grow our profits. When our current advertising network of digital frames, digital TV screens, light boxes, billboards and gate bridges becomes saturated in the major airports, airlines and other locations where we operate, we may be unable to offer additional time slots or locations to satisfy all of our advertisers’ needs, which could hamper our ability to generate higher levels of revenues and profitability over time. When our network of digital frames, digital TV screens, light boxes, billboards and gate bridges becomes saturated in any particular airport, airline and other locations where we operate, we may be unable to offer additional advertising time slots or locations to satisfy all of our advertisers’ needs. We would need to increase our advertising rates for advertising in such airports, airlines or other locations to increase our revenues. However, advertisers may be unwilling to accept rate increases, which could hamper our ability to generate higher levels of revenues over time. In particular, the utilization rates of our advertising time slots and locations in the five largest airports and on the three largest airlines in China are higher than those in other network airports or on other airlines, and saturation or oversaturation of digital frames and digital TV screens in these airports or airlines could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. Our strategy of expanding our advertising network by building new air travel media platforms and expanding into traditional media may not succeed, and our failure to do so could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network and harm our business, reputation and results of operations. Our air travel advertising network primarily consists of standard digital frames and digital TV screens. Our growth strategy includes broadening our service offerings by continuing to increase our digital media network coverage and expanding into traditional media to become a comprehensive air travel advertising provider in China. We have significantly expanded our digital frame platform in airports by upgrading our light box displays to digital frames and installing new digital frames. We intend to continue increasing the number of our digital frames in the near future. We could incur significant costs in installing new digital frames or in continuing to upgrade some of our existing light box displays to digital frame displays. As part of our strategic efforts to become a one-stop provider for advertising, we have also expanded into the traditional media advertising market to offer a broader range of advertising opportunities to our advertisers. We may continue to expand in the traditional media area as opportunities presents themselves and we could also incur significant costs in installing new billboards or light boxes or maintaining existing ones. The majority of our concession rights contracts containing exclusive concession rights only grants us exclusivity with respect to digital frames and digital TV screens. By entering and expanding into traditional advertising media platforms inside airports, we may face competition from other companies that are already in these areas. We also have limited experience working in these areas. It is uncertain how these businesses will perform. Our failure to expand our air travel advertising network to introduce new platforms and into new areas could materially reduce the attractiveness of our network and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 8 If we do not succeed in our expansion into the business of outdoor media advertising, our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our growth strategy also includes expansion into other traditional media outside of airports. In April 2009, we entered into an exclusive concession rights contract with Sinopec which allows us to operate media platforms in Sinopec gas stations throughout China. Our variable interest entity, AM Advertising, now holds 100% of AM Outdoor which operates out-of-home advertising media in urban locations in Beijing. Another one of our variable interest entities, Beijing AirMedia UC Advertising Co., Ltd., or AirMedia UC, now holds 75% equity interest in Dongding Gongyi Advertising Media Ltd., or Dongding, a company that has exclusive rights to build and operate, in locations throughout Beijing such as mall parking lots, schools and residential communities, outdoor billboards that display both public service content and commercial advertising throughout Beijing. As we are new in the gas station media advertising and outdoor media advertising market, it may take us an extended period of time to obtain advertisers and market acceptance and to ramp up revenue from this new business. However, under all of our existing concession rights agreements regarding our gas station and outdoor media displays, we are required to pay periodic, fixed concession fees for the media platforms regardless of whether or not such platforms are used by advertisers. We may also incur significant costs in maintaining and upgrading the gas station and outdoor traditional media platforms such as billboards, which are more vulnerable to weather and other accidental damages than indoor displays. For the gas station media platforms that are covered under the Sinopec concession rights contract, there are approvals required from various levels of local governments for the operation of each outdoor media platform. However, there are significant uncertainties regarding which local government agencies or which sets of local laws and regulations govern our gas station media platforms in specific locations. We have obtained approvals in the city of Tianjin, and coordinated orally with the local governments in other cities in which we operate such gas station media platforms. Although some local government authorities have not given approval due to lack of specific administrative procedures, no written application for approval has been filed or denied in any other city, and based on our previous communications with various local government authorities, we do not believe any other formal approvals are required to operate these gas station media platforms. Although we are using best efforts to comply with all relevant laws and regulations and obtain all necessary certificates, registrations and approvals for the advertising media platforms it operates, including actively consulting every relevant local government authority in every city in which we operate to ascertain the legal requirements for our business operations in the area and continually monitoring local government announcements for any relevant updates in such requirements, due to the complexity of local laws and regulations across China governing outdoor media advertising platforms, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or have all of the necessary approvals which we do not currently hold in a timely manner, or at all. Any delay or failure in obtaining the necessary approvals may materially and adversely affect the expansion into the business of outdoor media advertising, from which we derived less than 0.1% and 4.5% of our revenues in 2009 and 2010, respectively. Similarly, we face the same risks for the operation of outdoor media platforms through AM Outdoor and Dongding. Our concession rights contract with Sinopec also sets forth a schedule which states that we must develop and begin operating a set number of gas station media platforms by certain dates, subject to various carveouts and exemptions. We cannot assure you that we can fulfill this schedule as anticipated under this concession rights agreement, and failure to fulfill the schedule may lead to termination of the relevant concession rights agreement by the other party. For each new business into which we enter, we face competition from existing leading providers in that business; the same applies in the cases of gas station media advertising and outdoor media advertising markets. If we cannot successfully address the foregoing new challenges and compete effectively against the existing leading players in the field of gas station and outdoor media advertising, we may not be able to develop a sufficiently large advertiser base, recover costs incurred for developing and marketing our new business, and eventually achieve profitability from these businesses, and our future results of operations and growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 9 If advertising registration certificates are not obtained for our airport advertising operations where such registration certificates are deemed to be required, we may be subject to administrative sanctions, including the discontinuation of our advertisements at airports where the required advertising registration is not obtained. Applicable PRC regulations promulgated by the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, specify that advertisements placed inside or outside of the “departure halls” of airports are considered outdoor advertisements and must be registered with local SAIC offices by “advertising distributors.” However, the terms “advertising distributors” and “departure halls” are not defined under any PRC laws and regulations. To ensure that our airport operations fully comply with the applicable laws and regulations, we have contacted the local SAIC offices in the cities where we have operations or intend to operate to see whether we need to apply for advertising registration certificates. However, the local SAIC offices we consulted have expressed different views on whether the advertisements shown on our digital frames and digital TV screens would be regarded as outdoor advertisements and how to register those advertisements, if such registrations are required. As of the date of this annual report, only the Shanghai and Beijing SAICs have accepted our application and issued outdoor advertising registration certificates. Some local SAIC offices did not accept our applications due to the lack of specific administrative procedures, some local SAIC offices indicated that they needed more time to consider, while others have given oral permission for our operations and do not require us to make such registrations. We intend to register with the relevant local SAIC offices if we are required to do so, but we cannot assure you that we will obtain all applicable registration certificates in compliance with the outdoor advertisement provisions due to the uncertainty in the implementation and enforcement of the regulations promulgated by the SAIC. If a required registration is not obtained, the relevant local SAIC office may require us to forfeit our relevant advertising income, impose administrative fines of up to RMB30,000 and/or require us to discontinue advertisements at airports where the required advertising registration is not obtained. We have consulted with our PRC counsel regarding the likelihood that the relevant local SAIC offices will impose these penalties on us in the cities where we have not obtained advertising registration certificates. Due to the uncertainty of the SAIC regulations and the different views expressed by local SAIC offices, neither our PRC counsel nor we can estimate this likelihood. Any of these government measures could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we fail to obtain approvals for the inclusion of non-advertising content in our programs broadcast in digital TV screens in airlines, we may be unable to continue to include such non-advertising content in our programs, which may cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. Most of the digital TV screens in our network include programs that consist of both advertising content and non-advertising content. The State Administration of Radio, Film or Television, or the SARFT, issued a circular which stated that displaying audio-video programs such as television news, films and television shows, sports, technology and entertainment through public audio-video systems located in automobiles, buildings, airports, bus or train stations, shops and other outdoor public systems must be approved by the SARFT. The relevant authority in China has not promulgated any implementation rules on the procedure of applying for the requisite approval pursuant to this circular. We intend to obtain such approval for our non-advertising content, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such approval in compliance with this circular, or at all. In November 2010, we entered into a strategic partnership with CCTV Mobile Media to operate the CCTV Air Channel to broadcast TV programs to air travelers in China. Under the arrangement, CCTV Mobile Media will be responsible for program planning, production and broadcasting. The Company will operate exclusively the advertising business of CCTV Air TV Channel. According to the terms of the cooperation arrangement with CCTV Mobile Media, during the cooperation period from November 29, 2010 to November 28, 2025, CCTV Mobile Media shall obtain and, from time to time, be responsible for obtaining any approval, license and consent regarding the regulation of broadcasting and television from relevant authorities. We believe that CCTV Mobile Media has obtained the necessary approvals, licenses and consents. However, there is no assurance that CCTV Mobile Media will be able to maintain the requisite approval or we will be able to renew the contract with CCTV Mobile Media when it expires. If the requisite approval is not obtained, we will be required to eliminate non-advertising content from the programs displayed on our digital TV screens and advertisers may find our network less attractive and be unwilling to purchase advertising time slots and locations on our network, which may in turn cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. 10 Because we rely on third-party advertising agencies to help obtain advertisers, if we fail to maintain favorable relation with key third-party agencies or attract additional agencies on favorable terms, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We engage third-party advertising agencies to help obtain advertisers from time to time. We do not have long-term or exclusive agreements with these advertising agencies, including our key third-party advertising agencies, and cannot assure you that we will continue to maintain favorable relations with them. Furthermore, the fees we pay to these third-party advertising agencies constitute a significant portion of our cost of revenues. If we fail to retain key third-party advertising agencies or attract additional advertising agencies, we may not be able to retain existing advertisers or attract new advertisers or advertising agencies. If we fail to maintain favorable relations with these advertising agencies, the fees we pay them may significantly increase. If any of the above happens, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. A limited number of advertisers historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence may reoccur in the future, which would make us more vulnerable to the loss of major advertisers or delays in payments from these advertisers. A limited number of advertisers historically accounted for a significant portion of our revenues. Our top five advertisers collectively accounted for approximately 21.7%, 21.3% and 20.6% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our largest advertisers have changed from year to year primarily because of our limited operating history and rapid growth, broadened advertiser base and increased sales. However, given our limited operating history and the rapid growth of our industry, we cannot assure you that we will not be dependent on a small number of advertisers in the future. If we fail to sell our services to one or more of our major advertisers in any particular period, or if a major advertiser purchases fewer of our services, fails to purchase additional advertising time on our network, or cancels some or all of its purchase orders with us, our revenues could decline and our operating results could be adversely affected. The dependence on a small number of advertisers could leave us more vulnerable to payment delays from these advertisers. We are required under some of our concession rights contracts to make prepayments and although we do receive some prepayments from advertisers, there is typically a lag between the time of our prepayment of concession fees and the time that we receive payments from our advertisers. As our business expands and revenues grow, we have experienced and may continue to experience an increase in our accounts receivable. If any of our major advertisers are significantly delinquent with its payments, our liquidity and financial conditions may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to adapt to changing advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and consumers, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenues, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The market for air travel advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends and the technological needs of both advertisers and consumers, which may require us to develop new formats, features and enhancements for our advertising network. We currently play advertisements on digital frames through wireless networks, on digital TV screens in our network airports through closed-circuit television systems and on digital TV screens on our network airplanes mostly through video tapes. We may be required to incur development and acquisition costs to keep pace with new technology needs, but we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund and implement future technological innovations or to replace obsolete technology. We may also fail to respond to changing technology needs altogether. We must be able to quickly and cost-effectively expand into additional advertising media and platforms beyond digital frames and digital TV screens if advertisers find these additional media and platforms to be more attractive and cost-effective. In addition, as the advertising industry is highly competitive and fragmented with many advertising agencies exiting and emerging, we must closely monitor the trends in the advertising agency community. We must maintain strong relationships with leading advertising agencies to ensure that we are reaching the leading advertisers and are responsive to the needs of both the advertising agencies and the advertisers. If we fail to define, develop and introduce new formats, features and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, advertising demand for our advertising network may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertisers, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 11 We face significant competition in the PRC advertising industry, and if we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profits may be reduced. We face significant competition in the PRC advertising industry. We compete for advertisers primarily on the basis of network size and coverage, location, price, program quality, the range of services offered and brand recognition. We compete for advertising dollars spent in the air travel advertising industry. We also compete for overall advertising spending with other alternative advertising media, such as Internet, street facilities, billboard and public transport advertising, and with traditional advertising media such as newspapers, television, magazines and radio. While we enjoy a large share of the market of the digital frames and digital TV screens located in airports and on airplanes, we compete and will continue to compete with other media advertising platforms for which we do not have exclusivity, including billboards and light boxes. We may also face competition from new entrants into air travel advertising in the future. Significant competition could reduce our operating margins and profitability and lead to a loss of market share. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages such as significantly greater brand recognition, a longer history in the out-of-home advertising industry and financial, marketing or other resources, and may be able to mimic and adopt our business model. In addition, several of our competitors have significantly larger advertising networks than we do, which gives them an ability to reach a larger number of overall potential consumers and which may make them less susceptible than we are to downturns in particular advertising sectors, such as air travel. Moreover, significant competition will provide advertisers with a wider range of media and advertising service alternatives, which could lead to lower prices and decreased revenues, gross margins and profits focus. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors, and failure to compete may reduce for existing market share and profits. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in the demand for air travel. A decrease in the demand for air travel may make it difficult for us to sell our advertising time slots and locations. Our results of operations are directly linked to the demand for air travel, which fluctuates greatly from period to period, and is subject to seasonality due to holiday travel and weather conditions as well as many other factors, including the following: Downturns in the economy. Business travel is one of the primary drivers of the air travel industry and it tends to increase in times of economic growth and decrease in times of economic slowdown. A decrease in air passengers in China could lead to lower advertiser spending on our air travel advertising network. Terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the U.S. involving commercial aircraft severely and adversely affected the air travel industry throughout the world. Additional terrorist attacks or fear of such attacks, even if not made directly on the air travel industry, may negatively affect the air travel industry and reduce the demand for air travel. Additional security measures regarding air travel. Terrorist attacks have led to significantly increased security costs and associated passenger inconvenience. Since September 11, 2001, relevant authorities in the U.S., China and other countries have implemented numerous security measures that affect airport and airline operations and costs. These increasingly stringent security measures have led to higher costs for airports and airlines and may cause some air travelers to consider other travel options, which may in turn lead to higher concession fees and reduced advertising demand for us. Plane crashes or other accidents. An aircraft crash or other accident could create a public perception that air travel is not safe or reliable, which could result in air travelers being reluctant to fly. Significant aircraft delays due to capacity constraints, weather conditions or mechanical problems could also reduce demand for air travel, especially for shorter domestic flights. If the demand for air travel decreases for any of these or other reasons, advertisers may be reluctant to advertise on our network and we may be unable to sell our advertising time slots or locations or charge premium prices. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our expansion strategies or meet the demands of our advertisers. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We must continue to expand our operations to meet the demands of advertisers for broader and more diverse network coverage. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. 12 We will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce as well as manage our relationships with airports, airlines, gas stations and other locations where we have concession rights to displays and third-party non-advertising content providers. We must add sales and marketing offices and personnel to service relationships with new airports, gas stations and other locations that we aim to add as part of our network. As we add new digital frames, digital TV screens and other media platforms, we will incur greater maintenance costs to maintain our equipment. All of these endeavors will require substantial managerial efforts and skill, and incur additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth effectively, and we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our expansion strategies or meet the demands of our advertisers. Past and future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We have acquired and plan to continue to acquire businesses, technologies, services or products which are complementary to our core air travel advertising network business. Past and future acquisitions may expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: the integration of new operations, services and personnel; unforeseen or hidden liabilities; the diversion of resources from our existing business and technology; or failure to achieve the intended objectives of our acquisitions. Any of these potential risks could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to manage our business, our revenues and net income. We may need to raise additional debt or sell additional equity securities to make future acquisitions. The raising of additional debt funding by us, if required, would increase debt service obligations and may lead to additional operating and financing covenants, or liens on our assets, that would restrict our operations. The sale of additional equity securities could cause additional dilution to our shareholders. Our acquisition strategy also depends on our ability to obtain necessary government approvals. See “– Risks Related to Doing Business in China – The M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions.” We do not expect to sustain our recent rates of growth in revenue or the numbers of airports or digital frames in our network, and the number of our digital TV screens in airports may decline in the future. We have experienced significant growth in revenues in recent years. Our net revenues and the number of our network airports and the number of digital frames in these airports increased from 2007 to 2010. We cannot assure you that we can continue to achieve similar rates of growth in revenues or the number of airports or digital frames in our network in the future. In addition, the number of our digital TV screens in airports increased from 2007 to 2008 but experienced a decline in from 2009 to 2010. We cannot assure you that there will not be declines in the number of our digital TV screens in airports in the future. 13 Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the seasonality of air travel, consumer spending and corresponding advertising trends in China. Air travel and advertising spending in China generally tend to increase during major national holidays in October and tend to decrease during the first quarter of each year. Air travel and advertising spending in China is also affected by certain special events and related government measures. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Other factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include a deterioration of economic conditions in China and potential changes to the regulation of the advertising industry in China. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than we expect, we may be unable to reduce our operating costs and expenses for that quarter by a corresponding amount, and it would harm our operating results for that quarter relative to our operating results for other quarters. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key employees, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. We rely on their industry expertise, their experience in business operations and sales and marketing, and their working relationships with our advertisers, airports and airlines, and relevant government authorities. If one or more of our senior executives and other key employees were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we might not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives and other key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose advertisers, suppliers, key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and other key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between any of our executive officers and other key employees and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where most of these executive officers and other key employees reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China— Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” Failure to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities law. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must also contain management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, for non-smaller reporting companies and non accelerated filers, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report, which is included elsewhere in this annual report, which has concluded that we maintained, in all material aspects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could negatively affect the reliability of our financial information and reduce investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders, otherwise harm our reputation or negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may need additional capital which, if obtained, could result in dilution or significant debt service obligations. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If our current resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. 14 In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative advertising media companies; conditions of the market; our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; and PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising services companies in China. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure to raise additional funds on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Compliance with PRC advertising laws and regulations may be difficult and could be costly, and failure to comply could subject us to government sanctions. As an air travel advertising service provider, we are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content shown on our network for compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the offending advertisements and orders to publish advertisements correcting the misleading information. In case of serious violations, the PRC authorities may revoke our license for advertising business operations. In general, the advertisements shown on our network have previously been broadcast over public television networks and have been subjected to internal review and verification by such networks, but we are still required to independently review and verify these advertisements for content compliance before displaying them. In addition, if a special government review is required for certain product advertisements before they are shown to the public, we are required to confirm that such review has been performed and approval obtained. For advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as food products, alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals, including review of operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with local authorities. We endeavor to comply with such requirements through means such as requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. However, we cannot assure you that each advertisement that an advertiser provides to us and which we include in our network programs is in full compliance with all relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that such supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us are complete. Although we employ qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, the content standards in the PRC are less certain and less clear than those in more developed countries such as the U.S. and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to properly review all advertising content to comply with the PRC standards imposed on us with certainty. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against government actions and civil suits based on the content we provide through our advertising network. Because of the nature and content of the information displayed on our network, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations. Offensive and objectionable content and legal standards for defamation and fraud in China are less defined than in other more developed countries and we may not be able to properly screen out unlawful content. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, airports, airlines or gas stations where we have our media may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims or may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images, text or audio sounds are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images, text or audio sounds to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure despite our efforts to ensure the security of our content management system. Any such event may also damage our reputation. If our advertising viewers do not believe our content is reliable or accurate, our business model may become less appealing to viewers in China and our advertisers may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. 15 We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially and adversely affect our business. Our commercial success depends to a large extent on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure you that our displays or other aspects of our business do not or will not infringe patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and diversion of management time in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business. We have limited insurance coverage in China, and any business disruption or litigation we experience may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for our liability insurance for directors and officers, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. If one or more of our PRC subsidiaries fails to maintain or obtain qualifications to receive PRC preferential tax treatments, we will be required to pay more taxes, which may have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, imposes an uniform income tax rate of 25% on most domestic enterprises and foreign investment enterprises. Under this law, entities that qualify as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” are entitled to the preferential income tax rate of 15%. A company’s status as a “high and new technology enterprise strongly supported by the state” is valid for three years, after which the company must re-apply for such qualification in order to continue to enjoy the preferential income tax rate. In addition, according to relevant guidelines, “new software enterprises” can enjoy an income tax exemption for two years beginning with their first profitable year and a 50% tax reduction to a rate of 12.5% for the subsequent three years. AirMedia Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or AM Technology, was recognized as a “high and new technology enterprise supported by the state,” or HNTE, under the new rules and therefore, it is entitled to enjoy a preferential Enterprise Income Tax, or EIT, rate of 15%. It was also eligible for a 50% tax reduction from 2009 to 2011 under the applicable tax laws and regulations that were in effect before January 1, 2008, the date the EIT Law came into effect. As a result, AM Technology was subject to an EIT rate of 7.5% in 2010 and is expected to continue to be subject to the same rate in 2011. On April 21, 2010, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Circular “In respect of Further Clarifying the Implementation Scope of Preferential EIT Rate during Transition Periods,” which gives further guidance on the appropriate tax rate that an entity enjoys as a HNTE in addition to guidance on other preferential treatment. Uncertainties as to the interpretation of the Circular exist. While AM Technology is expected to be subject to an EIT rate of 7.5% in 2011, from 2012 onward, AM Technology may be subject to a preferential EIT at the rate of 15% as long as it maintains its status as a HNTE. Xi’an AirMedia Chuangyi Technology Co., Ltd., or Xi’an AM, qualified as a “new software enterprise” in August 2008 by the Technology Information Bureau of Shaanxi Province and has received a written approval from Xi’an local tax bureau that it is granted a two-year exemption from EIT commencing on its first profitable year and a 50% reduction of the 25% EIT rate for the succeeding three years. As Xi'an AM first made profit in 2009, it was exempted from EIT in 2009 and 2010. Shenzhen AirMedia Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shenzhen AM, was subject to a 15% preferential tax EIT rate in 2007 as it is located in Shenzhen and then was subject to EIT on its taxable income from 2008 at the gradual rate as set out in Circular 39. Since Shenzhen AM is also qualified as a “manufacturing foreign-invested enterprise” incorporated prior to the effectiveness of the EIT Law, it is further entitled to a two-year exemption from EIT for years 2008 and 2009 and preferential rates of 11%, 12% and 12.5% for the year 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. 16 Hainan Jinhui Guangming Media Advertising Co., Ltd., or Hainan Jinhui, is subject to EIT on the taxable income at the gradual rate, which was 18% in 2008, 20% in 2009 and 22% in 2010, and will be 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012 at the gradual rate as set out in Circular 39. We cannot assure you that our PRC subsidiaries will be able to maintain or obtain qualifications to receive the above preferential tax treatments; we will be required to pay more taxes if they fail to become or continue to be eligible to receive PRC tax benefits, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Dividends payable to us by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income, and dividends distributed to our investors may be subject to more PRC withholding taxes under new PRC tax law. Under the EIT Law and related regulations, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The British Virgin Islands, or BVI, where Broad Cosmos Enterprises Ltd., or Broad Cosmos, our wholly owned subsidiary and the 100% shareholder of Shenzhen AM, is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Air Media (China) Limited, the 100% shareholder of AM Technology and Xi’an AM, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income between China and Hong Kong and the relevant rules, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). However, under recently implemented PRC regulations, now our Hong Kong subsidiary must obtain approval from the competent local branch of the State Administration of Taxation in accordance with the double-taxation agreement among the PRC and Hong Kong in order to enjoy the 5% preferential withholding tax rate. In February 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued a new notice, or Notice No. 81. According to Notice No. 81, in order to enjoy the preferential treatment on dividend withholding tax rates, an enterprise must be the “beneficial owner” of the relevant dividend income, and no enterprise is entitled to enjoy preferential treatment pursuant to any tax treaties if such enterprise qualifies for such preferential tax rates through any transaction or arrangement, the major purpose of which is to obtain such preferential tax treatment. The tax authority in charge has the right to make adjustments to the applicable tax rates, if it determines that any taxpayer has enjoyed preferential treatment under tax treaties as a result of such transaction or arrangement. In October 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued another notice on this matter, or Notice No. 601, to provide guidance on the criteria to determine whether an enterprise qualifies as the “beneficial owner” of the PRC sourced income for the purpose of obtaining preferential treatment under tax treaties. Pursuant to Notice No. 601, the PRC tax authorities will review and grant tax preferential treatment on a case-by-case basis and adopt the “substance over form” principle in the review. Notice 601 specifies that a beneficial owner should generally carry out substantial business activities and own and have control over the income, the assets or other rights generating the income. Therefore, an agent or a conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner of such income. Since the two notices were issued, it has remained unclear how the PRC tax authorities will implement them in practice and to what extent they will affect the dividend withholding tax rates for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China to our Hong Kong subsidiary. If the relevant tax authority determines that our Hong Kong subsidiary is a conduit company and does not qualify as the “beneficial owner” of the dividend income it receives from our PRC subsidiaries, the higher 10% withholding tax rate may apply to such dividends. Under the EIT Law and EIT Implementation Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a PRC resident enterprise and is subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The EIT Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Overseas Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. SAT Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located inside China, stating that only a company meeting all the criteria would be deemed having its de factor management body inside China. One of the criteria is that a company’s major assets, accounting books and minutes and files of its board and shareholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC. Although SAT Circular 82 applies only to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not to those that, like our company, are controlled by PRC individuals, there are currently no further detailed rules or precedents applicable to us governing the procedures and specific criteria for determining “de facto management body” for our type of companies. 17 After consulting with our PRC counsel, we do not believe our holding company should be deemed a PRC resident enterprise as, among other things, certain of our company’s key assets and records, including register of members, board resolutions and shareholder resolutions, are located and maintained outside of the PRC, and we also hold our board and board committee meetings outside of the PRC from time to time. However, we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the EIT Law and EIT Implementation Rules, it is uncertain whether we will be deemed a PRC resident enterprise. If the PRC authorities were to subsequently determine, or any further regulations provide, that we should be treated as a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income. To the extent our holding company earns income outside of China, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income may increase our tax burden and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. If we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from the PRC dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempt under the EIT Law and the EIT Implementation Rules to the extent such dividends are deemed “dividends among qualified PRC resident enterprises.” If we are considered a resident enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes, dividends we pay with respect to our ADSs or ordinary shares may be considered income derived from sources within the PRC and subject to PRC withholding tax of 10%. In addition, non-PRC shareholders may be subject to PRC tax on gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is treated as sourced from within the PRC. It is unclear whether our non-PRC shareholders would be able to claim the benefits of any tax treaties between their tax residence and the PRC in the event that we are considered as a PRC resident enterprise. With the 10% PRC dividend withholding tax, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when we distribute our PRC profits to our ultimate shareholders if we are deemed not to be a PRC resident enterprise. On the other hand, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the EIT Law. Moreover, under the EIT Law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise and such income is deemed to be sourced from within the PRC. Although we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it is unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize on disposition will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry and in the operating of non-advertising content, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities, or VIEs, in China, AM Advertising, Beijing Shengshi Lianhe Advertising Co., Ltd., or Shengshi Lianhe, AirMedia UC, and Beijing Yuehang Digital Media Advertising Co., Ltd., or AM Yuehang. Although PRC regulations currently permit 100% foreign ownership of companies that provide advertising services, any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry are required to have at least three years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. In addition, PRC regulations currently prohibit foreign investment in the production and operation of any non-advertising content. Although our wholly owned Hong Kong subsidiary Air Media (China) Limited, the 100% shareholder of AM Technology and Xi’an Am, has been operating advertising business in Hong Kong since 2008, its operation experience is currently less than three years. As a result, we will not qualify under PRC regulations until the operating of Air Media (China) Limited reaches three years or until we acquire a company that has directly operated an advertising business outside of China for the required period of time. Accordingly, our three subsidiaries, AM Technology, Shenzhen AM, and Xi’an AM, are currently ineligible to apply for the required licenses for providing advertising services in China. Our advertising business is primarily provided through our contractual arrangements with our four consolidated variable interest entities in China. These entities directly operate our advertising network, enter into concession rights contracts and sell advertising time slots and locations to our advertisers. We have contractual arrangements with these variable interest entities pursuant to which we, through AM Technology, provide technical support and consulting services to these entities. We also have agreements with our variable interest entities and each of their shareholders that provide us with the substantial ability to control these entities. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see Item 4, “Information on the Company—Organizational Structure” and Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements.” 18 We believe that the VIE arrangements are in compliance with PRC law and are legally enforceable. The shareholders of the VIEs are also shareholders of the Company and therefore have no current interest in seeking to act contrary to the contractual arrangements. However, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit the Company’s ability to enforce these contractual arrangements and if the shareholders of the VIEs were to reduce their interest in the Company, their interests may diverge from that of the Company and that may potentially increase the risk that they would seek to act contrary to the contractual terms, for example by influencing the VIEs not to pay the service fees when required to do so. The Company’s ability to control the VIEs also depends on the power of attorney AM Technology has to vote on all matters requiring shareholder approval in the VIEs. As noted above, we believe this power of attorney is legally enforceable but may not be as effective as direct equity ownership. In addition, if the legal structure and contractual arrangements were found to be in violation of any existing PRC laws and regulations, the PRC government could: revoking the business and operating licenses of the Company’s PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; discontinuing or restricting the Company’s PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; imposing conditions or requirements with which the Company or its PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; or requiring the Company or its PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; While the Company does not believe that any penalties imposed or actions taken by the PRC government would result in the liquidation of the Company, AM Technology, or the VIEs, the imposition of any of these penalties may result in a material and adverse effect on the Company’s ability to conduct the Company’s business. In addition, if the imposition of any of these penalties causes the Company to lose the rights to direct the activities of the VIEs and its subsidiaries or the right to receive their economic benefits, the Company would no longer be able to consolidate the VIEs. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities and their shareholders for a substantial portion of our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with AM Advertising, Shengshi Lianhe, AirMedia UC and AM Yuehang to operate our advertising business. For a description of these arrangements, see Item 4, “Information on the Company—Organizational Structure” and Item 7, “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing control over our variable interest entities. Under these contractual arrangements, if our variable interest entities or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. Many of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for disputes to be resolved through arbitration or litigation in the PRC. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Contractual arrangements we have entered into among our subsidiaries and variable interest entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional taxes could substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. If any transactions we have entered into among AM Technology and our variable interest entities are found not to be on an arm’s length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for the tax savings we achieved would substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. 19 We may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If AM Technology, Shenzhen AM or Xi’an AM incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict the ability of these entities to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements AM Technology currently has in place with our variable interest entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect AM Technology’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM only out of their accumulated profits, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM are also required to set aside at least 10% of after-tax income based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. The registered capital of AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM is $42.0 million, RMB700 million (approximately $105.3 million) and $50.0 million, respectively. AM Technology and Xi’an AM have made the applicable annual appropriations required under PRC law. Shenzhen AM is not currently required to fund any statutory surplus reserve because it still has accumulated losses. Any direct or indirect limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends and other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to make investments or acquisitions at the holding company level, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Although none of Shenzhen AM, Xi’an AM or AM Technology has any present plan to pay any cash dividends to us in the foreseeable future, any limitation on the ability of AM Technology, Shenzhen AM or Xi’an AM to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by China’s economic, political and legal developments. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the level of government involvement and the level and growth rate of economic development. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past decades, growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. We cannot predict the future direction of political or economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the political or economic conditions in China, including changes in the policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and in the air travel advertising industry. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, lead to a reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us or result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. We conduct our business primarily through AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM, which are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly-foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. PRC legislation and regulations afford significant protections to various forms of foreign investments in China, but since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and the enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. 20 Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The PRC government has permitted the Renminbi to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar. The reporting and functional currency of our Cayman Islands parent company is the U.S. dollar. However, substantially all of the revenues and expenses of our consolidated operating subsidiaries and affiliate entities are denominated in Renminbi. Substantially all of our sales contracts are denominated in Renminbi and substantially all of our costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of dividend distribution or for other business purposes, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited so that we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. We may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payments of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, AM Technology, Shenzhen AM and Xi’an AM are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we or other foreign lenders make foreign currency loans to our subsidiaries or variable interest entities in China, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance them by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by or registered with certain government authorities including the SAFE, the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our subsidiaries and variable interest entities in China to exchange the foreign currencies obtained through debt or equity financing, and could affect our business and financial condition. 21 PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. Regulations promulgated by the SAFE require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of the SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of the SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment and capital variation. The PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to make such updates. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions, such as restrictions on distributing dividend to our offshore entities or monetary penalties against us. We cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with these SAFE registration procedures may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans from our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. Certain measures promulgated by the People’s Bank of China on foreign exchange for individuals set forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. Implementing rules for these measures were promulgated by the SAFE which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. The SAFE also promulgated rules under which PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options are subject to these rules. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—SAFE Regulations on Offshore Investment by PRC Residents and Employee Stock Options.” The M&A Rule sets forth complex procedures for acquisitions conducted by foreign investors which could make it more difficult to pursue growth through acquisitions. The PRC Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, sets forth complex procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. Part of our growth strategy includes acquiring complementary businesses or assets. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit the completion of such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. In addition, if any of our acquisitions were subject to the M&A Rule and were found not to be in compliance with the requirements of the M&A Rule in the future, relevant PRC regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 22 Changes in laws and regulations governing air travel advertising or otherwise affecting our business in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. There are no existing PRC laws or regulations that specifically define or regulate air travel advertising. Our subsidiaries Shenzhen AM, AM Technology and Xi’an AM all have current business licenses, as such licenses are required for all PRC incorporated entities to conduct active business operations in the PRC. The scopes of the business licenses for these three entities include the development of electronic, computer and media-related technologies and products and do not include advertising, due to certain restrictions on foreign ownership of advertising enterprises under PRC law. It has been reported that the relevant PRC government authorities are currently considering adopting new regulations governing air travel advertising. We cannot predict the timing and effects of such new regulations. Changes in laws and regulations governing the content of air travel advertising and our business licenses or otherwise affecting our business in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 59 and Circular 698 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. If we are considered a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law and if the PRC tax authorities make adjustments under Circular 59 or Circular 698, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased. The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in China may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law established more restrictions and increased costs for employers to dismiss employees under certain circumstances, including specific provisions relating to fixed-term employment contracts, non-fixed-term employment contracts, task-based employment, part-time employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee representative's council, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and for overtime work, and collective bargaining. Under the Labor Contract Law, unless otherwise provided by law, an employer is obligated to sign a labor contract with a non-fixed term with an employee, if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts, or if the employee has worked for the employer for 10 consecutive years. Severance pay is required if a labor contract expires and is not renewed because of the employer's refusal to renew or seeking to renew with less favorable terms. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation for five to 15 days, depending on the employee's number of years of employment. Employees who waive such vacation at the request of employers are entitled to compensation that equals to three times their regular daily salary for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new labor protection measures, our labor costs are expected to increase, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. It is also possible that the PRC government may enact additional labor-related legislations in the future, which would further increase our labor costs and affect our operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be volatile. 23 The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the year of 2010, the trading prices of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $2.83 to $8.90 per ADS and the closing sale price on May 3, 2011 was $4.50 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors including, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other advertising companies, conditions in the air travel advertising industry and the sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could also cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our subsidiaries and variable interest entities. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States and bring an action against us or against these individuals in a U.S. court if you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. 24 Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2010 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have included certain provisions in our memorandum and articles of association that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company and deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. The following provisions in our articles may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: Our board of directors has the authority to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series, including the designation of the series, the number of shares of the series, the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, and the rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, our board of directors may issue additional ordinary shares or rights to acquire ordinary shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued shares. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders who could exert significant influence over important corporate matters, which may reduce the price of our ADSs and deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares. As of May 3, 2011, our principal shareholder, Herman Man Guo, beneficially owned approximately 30.73% of our outstanding ordinary shares. He could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have the dual effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and reducing the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In addition, these persons could divert business opportunities from us to themselves or others. We are a “foreign private issuer,” and have disclosure obligations that are different than those of U.S. domestic reporting companies so you should not expect to receive the same information about us at the same time as a U.S. domestic reporting company may provide. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to certain of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the SEC. For example, we are not required by the SEC or the federal securities laws to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements with the SEC. Through the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, we are allowed six months to file our annual report with the SEC and thereafter must file our annual report within four months of our fiscal year end. We are not required to disclose certain detailed information regarding executive compensation that is required from U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5. Since many of the disclosure obligations required of us as a foreign private issuer are different than those required by other U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive information about us in the same amount and at the same time as information is received from, or provided by, other U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the SEC which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer. Violations of these rules could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Depending upon the value of our assets based on the market value of our ordinary shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our income and assets, we believe that we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. However, we believe that there is a significant risk that we will be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2011. Although the law in this regard is unclear, we treat the consolidated variable interest entities and their subsidiaries as being owned by us for U.S. federal income tax purposes, because we control their management decisions but also because we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits associated with these entities, and, as a result, we consolidate these entities’ operating results in our consolidated financial statements. If it were determined, however, that we are not the owner of the consolidated variable interest entities and their subsidiaries for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2010 and any subsequent taxable year. Because the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects and, in addition, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year), we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2011 or any future taxable year. In particular, we believe that there is a significant risk that we will be a PFIC for our taxable year ending December 31, 2011 unless the market price of our ADSs increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce active income. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we utilize the cash (or other passive assets or investments) we have on hand or raise in any offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation— United States Federal Income Taxation”) held our ADSs, or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. For example, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations with respect to any gain recognized or the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares and certain distributions, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. Further, if we were a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares, we generally would continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder held our ADSs or ordinary shares. See Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” ITEM 