D. Risk Factors—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us or result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has identified significant deficiencies and other control deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remediate these control deficiencies and fail to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities law. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must also contain management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We cannot assure you that our management will be able to conclude that our internal control over our financial reporting is effective at that time. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Prior to our initial public offering in November 2007, we were a private company with limited accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP experience and other resources with which to adequately address our internal control over our financial closing and reporting process and other procedures. Our independent registered public accounting firm has not conducted an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. However, in connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm noted a number of control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, including certain significant deficiencies. We have agreed with these findings. It is important to note that we and our independent registered public accounting firm did not undertake a comprehensive assessment of our internal controls for purposes of identifying and reporting significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We have undertaken certain remedial steps to address them, including hiring additional accounting staff, training our new and existing accounting staff, and hiring a third-party consultant to assist us in improving our internal control procedures. We are also setting up an internal control process to timely assess new releases of U.S. GAAP and SEC regulations and have purchased a U.S. GAAP database to ensure that we have timely knowledge of any new update to U.S. GAAP and SEC regulations and that we have a complete database to conduct research for the emerging accounting matters. We are also preparing the internal accounting policies manual, which in practice has been complied with by our accounting staff. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, and we cannot yet conclude that they have been fully remedied. We plan to continue to address and remediate the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in time to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If, however, we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. 15 Table of Contents Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs, result in lawsuits being filed against us by our shareholders or otherwise harm our reputation. We may need additional capital, which, if obtained, could result in dilution or significant debt service obligations. We may not be able to obtain additional capital on commercially reasonable terms, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments. If our current sources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. In addition, our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative advertising media companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising services companies in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure to raise additional funds on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against government actions and civil suits based on the content we provide through our air travel digital media network. Civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our network. If consumers find the content displayed on our network to be offensive, airports or airlines may seek to hold us responsible for any consumer claims or may terminate their relationships with us. Offensive and objectionable content and legal standards for defamation and fraud in China are less defined than in other more developed countries and we may not be able to properly screen out unlawful content. In addition, if the security of our content management system is breached and unauthorized images, text or audio sounds are displayed on our network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images, text or audio sounds to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure despite our efforts to ensure the security of our content management system. Any such event may also damage our reputation. If our advertising viewers do not believe our content is reliable or accurate, our business model may become less appealing to viewers in China and our advertising clients may be less willing to place advertisements on our network. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. There is no assurance that our displays or other aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Although we are not aware of any such claims, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses and diversion of management time in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely disrupt our business. We have limited insurance coverage in China, and any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, except for fire insurance and our liability insurance for directors and officers, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We face risks related to health epidemics, which could materially and adversely affect air travel and result in reduced demand for our advertising services or disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a health epidemic or outbreak on the economic and business climate. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak in China may have a material adverse effect on demand for air travel in China. For example, the SARS outbreak in 2003 and 2004 alarmed air travelers around both the region and the world raising issues pertaining to health and travel. During this time period, the SARS outbreak significantly deterred air travel and had a material and adverse effect on the air travel industry. From 2005 to 2007, there have also been reports on the occurrence of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. A new outbreak of SARS or increased outbreaks of avian flu may result in health or other government authorities requiring the closure of our offices or other businesses, including airports and airline operations which comprise the primary locations where we provide our advertising services. A health epidemic could result in a significant drop in demand for air travel and ultimately our advertising services, severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The new PRC tax law could increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to Shenzhen AM and AM Technology, which would have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, companies established in China were generally subject to a state and local enterprise income tax, or EIT, at statutory rates of 30% and 3%, respectively. In addition, an enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” and located in a “national high-tech development zone” was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% and an exemption from the EIT for two years commencing with its first profitable year, and a 50% reduction of its applicable EIT rate for the succeeding three years. In addition, an enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” located in the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% and will enjoy an exemption from the EIT for the first three years of its establishment and a 50% reduction of the EIT for the succeeding three years. The qualification of “high and new technology enterprise” is subject to an annual or biennial evaluation by the relevant government authority in China. Under the prior PRC tax laws, AirMedia Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or AM Technology, which is registered and operates in the Beijing New Technology Industry Development Zone, qualified as a “ high and 17 Table of Contents new technology enterprise” located in a high-tech zone in Beijing and, therefore, was entitled to a three-year exemption from EIT from year 2006 to 2008, a preferential tax rate of 7.5% from year 2009 to 2011, and a preferential tax rate of 15% thereafter as long as it continues to qualify as a “new or high-technology enterprise”. Under the prior PRC tax laws, Beijing Shengshi Lianhe Advertising Co., Ltd, or Shengshi Lianhe, AirTV United Media & Culture Co., Ltd., or AirTV United, Beijing AirMedia Film & TV Culture Co., Ltd., or AM Film and Beijing AirMedia UC Advertising Co., Ltd., or AirMedia UC, were subject to 33% income tax rate and Beijing AirMedia Advertising Co., Ltd., or AM Advertising, was subject to zero percent income tax in 2006 and 2007 pursuant to a tax incentive policy granted by the local tax authority in Beijing. Shenzhen AirMedia Information Technology Co., Ltd., or Shenzhen AM, qualified as a “new or high-technology enterprise” located in Shenzhen and, therefore, was entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% in 2007. The Enterprise Income Tax Law enacted by the National People’s Congress of China, or the new PRC tax law, became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the new PRC tax law, foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, and domestic companies are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. In addition, certain enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% under the new PRC tax law if they qualify as “high and new technology enterprises supported by the State”. According to the Implementation Regulations of the Enterprise Income Tax Law which took effect on January 1, 2008, the “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” shall refer to an enterprise that owns the core proprietary intellectual property rights and fulfills all of the conditions stipulated therein. However, no verification and administrative measures relating to “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” have been issued by the relevant government authorities under the State Council. We cannot assure you that any of our subsidiaries or variable interest entities will be qualified as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” under the new PRC tax law and entitled to the preferential tax rate of 15%. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice of the State Council Concerning Implementation of Transitional Rules for Enterprise Income Tax Incentives, or Circular 39. Based on Circular 39, certain enterprises established before March 16, 2007 that were eligible for preferential tax treatments according to then effective tax laws and regulations are eligible for a gradual rate increase to 25% over the 5-year period beginning from January 1, 2008. Specifically, the applicable rates under such an arrangement for such enterprises that enjoyed the 15% tax rate prior to the effectiveness of the new PRC tax law will be 18% in 2008, 20% in 2009, 22% in 2010, 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012, respectively. According to the Notice on Prepayment of EIT issued by the State Administration of Taxation on January 30, 2008, the gradually increased EIT rate during the transition period may not be applicable to the high and new technology enterprises. The high and new technology enterprises will be subject to EIT at 25% since 2008 if the high and new technology enterprises certified under the previous tax regulations cannot qualify as high and new technology enterprises under the new EIT law and regulations. Under the new PRC tax laws, Shengshi Lianhe, AirTV United, AM Film, AirMedia UC and AM Advertising are all currently subject to EIT on the taxable income at the rate of 25%. Shenzhen AM will continue to benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15%, subject to any other applicable regulations, if Shenzhen AM qualifies as a “high and new technology enterprise strongly supported by the State” under the new PRC tax law. Otherwise, Shenzhen AM would be subject to EIT on the taxable income at the gradual rate. If AM Technology qualifies as a “high and new technology enterprise strongly supported by the State” under the new PRC tax law, it will continue to be subject to the applicable EIT tax rate of 15%, subject to any other applicable regulations. Otherwise, if AM Technology is not eligible for the gradual rate increase, it would be subject to a 25% uniform EIT rate. Because further detailed regulations and administrative measures for the assessment of the “high and new technology enterprises supported by the State” or the eligibility for the gradual tax increase have not been promulgated, it is unclear whether or not Shenzhen AM or AM Technology will qualify as a “high and new technology enterprises supported by the State” and be subject to the preferential tax rate or be eligible for the gradual tax increase. An increase in Shenzhen AM and AM Technology’s EIT rate pursuant to the new PRC tax law may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Dividends payable to us by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, or we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income and dividends distributed to our investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the new PRC tax law. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. In 2007, the PRC government promulgated the new PRC tax law and the relevant implementation rules, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the new PRC tax law and its implementation rules, all domestic and foreign-invested companies would be subject to a uniform EIT at the rate of 25%, and dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The British Virgin Islands, where our wholly-owned subsidiary and the 100% shareholder of Shenzhen AM is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. AirMedia (China) Limited, the 100% shareholder of AM Technology, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between China and Hong Kong in August 2006, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, according to the implementation rules of the new PRC tax law, the qualified dividend and profit distribution from equity investment between resident enterprises shall refer to investment income derived by a resident enterprise from the direct investment in other resident enterprises with exception to the investment income from circulating stocks issued publicly by resident enterprises and traded on stock exchanges where the holding period is less than 12 months. The new PRC tax law provides, however, dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises will be exempted. As the term “resident enterprises” needs further clarification and explanation, we cannot assure you that the dividends distributed by Shenzhen AM and AM Technology to their direct shareholders would be regarded as dividends distributed between qualified resident enterprises, and be exempted from the EIT. However, under the new PRC tax law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore be subject to the PRC EIT at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the new PRC tax law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise, we would be subject to the PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income; dividend income we receive from the PRC subsidiaries, however, would be exempt from PRC tax since such income is exempted under the new PRC Tax Law to a PRC resident recipient. With the newly imposed 10% PRC dividend withholding tax, we will incur an incremental PRC tax cost when PRC profits are distributed to ultimate shareholders. In addition, if we are determined to be a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and receive income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flow would be adversely impacted due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the new PRC tax law. Moreover, under the new PRC tax law, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although our company is incorporated in the Cayman Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign ADS holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax on our dividend payments will reduce the returns of your investment We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and Nasdaq, have required changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. As a result of being a public company, we have established additional board committees and have adopted and implemented additional policies regarding internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting, increases our costs. In addition, we incur costs associated with public company reporting requirements, such as the requirements to file an annual report and other event-related reports with the SEC. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation of Our Business and to Our Structure Compliance with PRC advertising laws and regulations may be difficult and could be costly, and failure to comply could subject us to government sanctions. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute are fair and accurate and are in full compliance with applicable law. Violation of these laws or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for advertising business operations. As an air travel advertising service provider, we are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content that is shown on our network for compliance with applicable law. In general, the advertisements shown on our network have previously been broadcast over public television networks and have been subjected to internal review and verification of such networks. We are still required to independently review and verify these advertisements for content compliance before displaying the advertisements. In addition, if a special government review is required for certain product advertisements before they are shown to the public, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained. In addition, for advertising content related to certain types of products and services, such as food products, alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertising client’s operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. We endeavor to comply with such requirements, including by requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. However, we cannot assure you that each advertisement that an advertiser or advertising agency client provides to us and which we include in our network programs is in compliance with relevant PRC advertising laws and regulations or that the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients in connection with certain advertising content are complete. Although we employ qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, the content standards in the PRC are less certain and less clear than in those in more developed countries such as the U.S. and we cannot assure you that we will be able to properly review the content to comply with the standards imposed on us with certainty. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry and in the operating of non-advertising content, we could be subject to severe penalties. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated variable interest entities in China, AM Advertising, Shengshi Lianhe and AirMedia UC. Though PRC regulations currently permit 100% foreign ownership of companies that provide advertising services, any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry are required to have at least three years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. In addition, PRC regulations currently prohibit foreign investment in the production and operation of any non-advertising content. We do not currently directly operate an advertising business outside of China and thus cannot qualify under PRC regulations until three years after we commence any such operations outside of China or until we acquire a company that has directly operated an advertising business outside of China for the required period of time. Accordingly, our two subsidiaries, Shenzhen AM and AM Technology are currently ineligible to apply for the required licenses for providing advertising services in China. Our advertising business is primarily provided through our contractual arrangements with our three consolidated variable interest entities in China. AM Advertising is owned by Shengshi Lianhe and four PRC citizens: Herman Man Guo, Qing Xu, Xiaoya Zhang and Zhenyu Wang, who holds the equity on behalf of CDH China Growth Capital Management Company Limited, or CDH. Shengshi Lianhe is owned by four PRC citizens: Herman Man Guo, Qing Xu, Xiaoya Zhang and 20 Table of Contents Zhenyu Wang, who holds the equity on behalf of CDH. AirMedia UC is owned by three PRC citizens: Herman Man Guo, Qing Xu and Zhenyu Wang, who holds the equity on behalf of CDH. Our variable interest entities are the major companies through which we provide advertising services in China. They directly operate our advertising network, enter into concession rights contracts and sell advertising time slots to our clients. We have been and are expected to continue to depend on our variable interest entities to operate our advertising business. We have entered into contractual arrangements with our variable interest entities, pursuant to which we, through AM Technology, provide technical support and consulting services to our variable interest entities. In addition, we have entered into agreements with our variable interest entities and each of their shareholders, which provide us with the substantial ability to control our variable interest entities. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” Under the equity pledge agreements, the shareholders of our variable interest entities respectively pledged their equity interests in our variable interest entities to AM Technology. This pledge was duly created by recording the pledge on AM Technology’s register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Security Law, which governed the validity of such pledge prior to the effectiveness of the PRC Property Rights Law. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, however, effective as of October 1, 2007, such pledge will be effective upon registration with the relevant administration for industry and commerce. AM Technology applied for such registration, but the application was not accepted due to the lack of a clear registration procedure. AM Technology will continue to make efforts to register such pledge when the administration for industry and commerce implements registration procedures in accordance with the PRC Property Rights Law in the future. We cannot assure you whether or when AM Technology can complete such registration procedure. Before the duly completion of such registration procedure, we cannot assure you that the effectiveness of such pledge can be recognized in PRC courts if disputes arises on certain pledged equity interest or that AM Technology’s interests as pledgee will prevail over those of third parties. If we or any of our variable interest entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, and the SARFT, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may not be able to comply; or • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations. The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with AM Advertising, Shengshi Lianhe and AirMedia UC and shareholders for a substantial portion of our China operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. We rely on contractual arrangements with AM Advertising, Shengshi Lianhe and AirMedia UC to operate our advertising business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4 Information on the Company—C. Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over our variable interest entities. Under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our variable interest entities or their shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. 21 Table of Contents Many of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our variable interest entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. Contractual arrangements we have entered into among our subsidiaries and variable interest entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for our preferential tax treatment, or both, could substantially increase our taxes owed, and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be audited or challenged by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we have entered into among AM Technology and our variable interest entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of our respective PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for the tax savings we achieved for the period from August 7, 2005, the date we commenced operations, to December 31, 2005 or in 2006 and 2007, or that Shenzhen AM, AM Technology, AM Advertising and its subsidiaries, Shengshi Lianhe or AirMedia UC are ineligible for their preferential tax treatment, would substantially increase our taxes owed and reduce our net income and the value of your investment. As a result of this risk, you should evaluate our results of operations and financial condition without regard to these tax savings. We may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by Shenzhen AM and AM Technology for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If Shenzhen AM or AM Technology incur debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict Shenzhen AM or AM Technology’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements AM Technology currently has in place with our variable interest entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect AM Technology’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by Shenzhen AM and AM Technology only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, Shenzhen AM and AM Technology are also required to set aside a portion of net income each year to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, subject to certain cumulative limits, the statutory general reserve fund requires annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends. As a result of these PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC variable interest entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Although neither Shenzhen AM nor AM Technology has declared or paid any dividends, nor does either of them have any present plan to pay any cash dividends to us in the foreseeable future, any limitation on the ability of Shenzhen AM or AM Technology to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Changes in laws and regulations governing air travel advertising or otherwise affecting our business in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. There are no existing PRC laws or regulations that specifically define or regulate air travel advertising. It has been reported that the relevant PRC government authorities are currently considering 22 Table of Contents adopting new regulations governing air travel television advertising. We cannot predict the timing and effects of such new regulations. Changes in laws and regulations governing the content of air travel advertising, our business licenses or otherwise affecting our business in China may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and may materially and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments of China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the amount of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 25 years, growth has been uneven both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures may benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. We cannot predict the future direction of political or economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Any adverse change in the political or economic conditions in China, including changes in the policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and in the air travel advertising industry. Such developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, lead to a reduction in demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to us or result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. We conduct our business primarily through Shenzhen AM and AM Technology, which are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly-foreign owned companies. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and the enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit the legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and management attention. Fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an average appreciation of 23 Table of Contents approximately 18.5% of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and April 29, 2008. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. The reporting and functional currency of our Cayman Islands parent company is the U.S. dollar. However, substantially all of the revenues and expenses of our consolidated operating subsidiaries and affiliate entities are denominated in RMB. Substantially all of our sales contracts were denominated in RMB and substantially all of our costs and expenses is denominated in RMB. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited so that we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and expenses are denominated in RMB. If our RMB-denominated revenues increase or RMB-denominated expenses decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payments of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, Shenzhen AM and AM Technology are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Foreign exchange transactions by our subsidiary and variable interest entities in China under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if we or other foreign lenders make foreign currency loans to our subsidiaries or variable interest entities in China, these loans must be registered with the SAFE, and if we finance them by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved or registered by certain government authorities including the SAFE, the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of these entities to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could affect our business and financial condition. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and registration requirements for employee stock ownership plans or share option plans may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or the plan participants to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. SAFE recently promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. Under the SAFE regulations, PRC residents who make, or have previously made, direct or indirect investments in offshore companies, will be required to register those investments. In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to file or update the registration with the local branch of SAFE, with respect to that offshore company, any material change involving its round-trip investment, capital variation, such as an increase or decrease in capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, 24 Table of Contents the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to urge the PRC resident shareholders to update their SAFE registration with the local branch of SAFE when such updates are required under applicable SAFE regulations. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration or file or update the registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to their offshore parent company, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into their PRC subsidiaries. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions, such as restrictions on distributing dividend to our offshore entities or pecuniary measures against us. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by these SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to comply with the registration procedures set forth therein may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our cross-border investment activities, or limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends or obtain foreign-exchange-dominated loans to our company. As it is uncertain how the SAFE regulations will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC domestic company, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, will be able to obtain the necessary approvals or complete the necessary filings and registrations required by the SAFE regulations. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and could adversely affect our business and prospects. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures of Foreign Exchange Matters for Individuals, or the PBOC Regulation, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by PRC individuals under either the current account or the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued implementing rules for the PBOC Regulation, which, among other things, specified approval requirements for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plans or stock option plans of an overseas publicly-listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees who have been granted stock options will be subject to the Stock Option Rule when our company becomes an overseas publicly-listed company. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—SAFE Regulations on Offshore Investment by PRC Residents and Employee Stock Options.” Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs has been volatile. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the year of 2007, the trading prices of our ADSs on the Nasdaq ranged from US$15.60 to US$25.15 per ADS and the closing sale price on April 29, 2008 was US$19.96 per ADS. The price of our ADSs may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors including the following: • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements of studies and reports relating to the circulation, ratings, audience, quality or effectiveness of our services or those of our competitors; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other advertising companies; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and changes or revisions of our expected results; 25 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in the air travel digital media industry; • announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of our senior management; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and the U.S. dollar; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived potential sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived potential sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of a certain number of our shares under the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register both the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective and we may not be able to establish a necessary exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution 26 Table of Contents available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property to you. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China and the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through Shenzhen AM and AM Technology. A majority of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended and restated from time to time, and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against us and our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which provides persuasive, but not binding, authority. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in U.S. federal courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us, our management, our directors or our major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have included certain provisions in our memorandum and articles of association that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, and deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. We have included the following provisions in our articles that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board directors has the authority to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any 27 Table of Contents series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series, including the designation of the series, the number of shares of the series, the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, and the rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. • Our board of directors may issue a series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued preferred shares. Accordingly, the issuance of preferred shares may adversely affect the rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. Issuance of preference shares may dilute the voting power of holders of ordinary shares. • Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, our board of directors may issue additional ordinary shares or rights to acquire ordinary shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued shares. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholder who could exert significant influence over important corporate matters, which may reduce the price of our ADSs and deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your shares. As of April 15, 2008, our principal shareholder, Herman Man Guo, beneficially owned approximately 41.1% of our outstanding ordinary shares. In addition, as of April 15, 2008, Global Gateway Investments Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of CDH, beneficially owned approximately 19.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders, if acting together, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving material mergers, acquisitions or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could have the dual effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and reducing the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In addition, these persons could divert business opportunities from us to themselves or others. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders. Based on the price of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the composition of our income and assets, we believe that we were not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007, and we expect to operate in such a manner so as not to become a PFIC in the future. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects and, in addition, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2008 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets will be determined based on the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in any offering. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to the U.S. Holder. For example, if we are a PFIC, U.S. Holders will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations with respect to any gain recognized or the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares and certain distributions, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 