ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this report that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business in General 18 Our relatively limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. We opened our first drugstore in March 2004, and entered the wholesale pharmaceutical distribution business in August 2011. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the pharmaceutical industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · maintain our market position; · attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; · respond to competitive market conditions; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop customer loyalty; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · ability to find and open new locations. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We depend substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business and prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is dependent on the continued services of the key members of our management team. In particular, we depend on the services of our three cofounders, Mr. Lei Lu, who is also our chief executive officer and the chairman of our board of directors, and Ms. Li Qi and Mr. Chong’an Jin, who are also members of our board of directors. The implementation of our business strategy and our future success depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for personnel from both retail and wholesale pharmaceutical distribution operators. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract or retain the personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and prospects. The process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is also often lengthy. In the past, we have had two major challenges to our recruiting efforts: (1) unqualified candidates who represent themselves as being qualified, and (2) talented and competent candidates who do not match our job requirements. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key-man insurance for members of our management team. If we lose the services of any senior management, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management. Each of our three cofounders has entered into a confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us regarding these agreements. However, if any disputes arise between our cofounders and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, that any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where the three cofounders reside and hold some of their assets. See “Risks Related to Doing Business in China — You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management..” We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in further operating and financing covenants that would further restrict our freedom to operate our business, such as conditions that: · limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consent for the payment of dividends; · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditures, working capital and other general corporate purposes; and · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. 19 We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. We have significant cash deposits with our suppliers and landlords in order to obtain and maintain our inventory and maintain and establish store locations, which we may not be able to recover in the event of bankruptcy by our suppliers or landlords or other events beyond our control. Our ability to obtain products and maintain inventory at, and to maintain and establish leases for, our existing and new retail locations, is dependent upon our ability to post and maintain significant cash deposits with our suppliers and landlords. In China many vendors are unwilling to extend credit terms for product sales which require cash deposits to be made, and landlords may require 12 months or longer of cash deposit as security from tenants. At March 31, 2012, we had approximately $14.3 million on deposit with suppliers and approximately $2.9 million as deposits with landlords for our retail locations. If we are unable or unwilling to establish such advances and deposits our ability to generate sales and expand our business would be adversely affected. In general, we expect the amounts required for advances and deposits to increase as we undertake our expansion plans, complete store openings and expand our business through acquisitions or otherwise. We do not generally receive interest on any of our supplier or landlord deposits and such deposits are subject to loss as a result of the creditworthiness or bankruptcy of the party who holds our funds, as well as the risk from illegal acts such as conversion, fraud, theft or dishonesty associated with the third party. If these circumstances were to arise, we would find it difficult or impossible, due to the unpredictability of legal proceedings in China, to recover all or a portion of the amount on deposit with our vendors or landlords. If we are unable to optimize management of our procurement and distribution activities, we may be unable to meet customer demand while increasing burden on managing our supply chain. Since May 2011, we have been using Jiuxin Medicine’s facility as our distribution center for both our retail and wholesale businesses. Our ability to meet customer demand may be significantly limited if we do not successfully and efficiently conduct our distribution activities, or if Jiuxin Medicine’s facility is destroyed or shut down for any reason, including as the result of a natural disaster. Any disruption in the operation of our distribution could result in higher costs or longer lead times associated with distributing our products. In addition, as it is difficult to predict accurate sales volume in our industry, we may be unable to optimize our distribution activities, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory, warehousing, fulfillment or distribution capacity. Furthermore, failure to effectively control product damage during distribution process could decrease our operating margins and reduce our profitability. In addition, all product procurement is handled through our corporate headquarters. Such centralization of merchandise procurement and replenishment operations is intended to reduce cost of goods sold as a result of volume purchase benefits. However, we may be less successful than anticipated in achieving these volume purchase benefits. In addition, the centralization of merchandise procurement for both our retail and wholesale operations is expected to increase the complexity of tracking inventory and place additional burdens on the management of our supply chain. If we cannot successfully reduce our costs through centralizing procurement, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain optimal inventory levels could increase our inventory holding costs or cause us to lose sales, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We need to maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate both our retail and wholesale businesses successfully as well as meet customer expectations. However, we must also guard against the risk of accumulating excess inventory. We are exposed to inventory risks as a result of rapid changes in product life cycles, changing consumer preferences, uncertainty of success of product launches, seasonality, and manufacturer backorders and other vendor-related problems. We cannot assure you that we can accurately predict these trends and events and avoid over-stocking or under-stocking products. In addition, demand for products could change significantly between the time product inventory is ordered and the time it is available for sale. When we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. The purchase of certain types of inventory may require significant lead-time. As we carry a broad selection of products and maintain significant inventory levels for a substantial portion of our merchandise, we may be unable to sell such inventory in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Carrying too much inventory would increase our inventory holding costs, and failure to have inventory in stock when a customer orders or purchases it could cause us to lose that order or lose that customer, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on computer software and hardware systems in managing our operations, the capacity of which may restrict our growth and the failure of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our integrated information management system to monitor daily operations of our retail and wholesale businesses, and to maintain accurate and up-to-date operating and financial data for compilation of management information. In addition, we rely on our computer hardware and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of the data of our retail and wholesale systems. Any system failure which causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increase in the service time could disrupt our normal operation. Although we believe that our computer software and hardware systems are current and that our disaster recovery plan is adequate in handling their failure, we cannot assure you that we can effectively carry out this disaster recovery plan and that we will be able to restore our operation within a sufficiently short time frame to avoid our business being disrupted. Any failure in our computer software and/or hardware systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the capacity of our computer software and hardware systems fails to meet the increasing needs of our expanding operations, our ability to grow may be constrained. As a distributor of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products, we are exposed to inherent risks relating to product liability and personal injury claims. Distributors of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of such products. Such risks include unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and, with respect to our pharmacies, improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions and adequacy of warnings. Furthermore, the applicable laws, rules and regulations require our in-store pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to our customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the in-store pharmacists deem significant. Our in-store pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects and we may be liable for claims arising from advices given by our in-store pharmacists. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products we distribute, and we may be required to pay for damages for any successful product liability claim against us, although we may have the right under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations to recover from the relevant manufacturer for compensation we paid to our customers in connection with a product liability claim. We may also be obligated to recall affected products. If we are found liable for product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Furthermore, even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be required to spend significant management, financial and other resources, which could disrupt our business, and our reputation as well as our brand names may also suffer. We, like many other similar companies in China, do not carry product liability insurance. As a result, any imposition of product liability could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance due to the limited coverage of any business interruption insurance in China, and as a result, any business disruption or natural disaster could severely disrupt our business and operations and significantly decrease our revenue and profitability. 20 We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively and failure to do so could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and growth potential. We anticipate continued expansion of our retail and wholesale businesses to address growth in demand for our products and services, as well as to capture new market opportunities. The continued growth of our business has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on our management, operational and other resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: · our ability to continue to identify and lease new store locations at acceptable prices; · our ability to optimize product offerings and increase sales of private label products; · our ability to control procurement cost and optimize product pricing; · our ability to control operating expenses and achieve a high level of efficiency, including, in particular, our ability to manage the amount of time required to open new stores and for stores to become profitable, to maintain sufficient inventory levels and to manage warehousing, buying and distribution costs; · information technology system enhancement; · strengthening of financial and management controls; · increased marketing, sales and sales support activities; and · hiring and training of new personnel. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on the continued service of, and on the ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified and skilled staff for our business. Our ability to continue expanding our retail and wholesale businesses, and deliver high quality products and customer service, depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified and skilled staff. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient numbers of skilled personnel necessary to continue to develop and grow our business. In the past, our major recruiting challenges included unqualified candidates who represent themselves as being qualified, and talented and competent candidates who do not match our job requirements. The inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled personnel could limit our ability to open additional stores, increase revenue or deliver high quality customer service. In addition, competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, our revenue and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. Both drugstore and wholesale pharmaceutical distribution industries in China are highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary drugstore competitors include other drugstore chains and independent drugstores. We also increasingly face competition from discount stores, convenience stores and supermarkets as we increase our offering of non-drug convenience products and services. We compete for customers and revenue primarily on the basis of store location, merchandise selection, price, services that we offer and our brand name. We believe that the continued consolidation of the drugstore industry and continued new store openings by chain store operators will further increase competitive pressures in the industry. Our primary wholesale competitors include regional and national players. In addition, we may be subject to additional competition from new entrants to both industries in China. We could also face increased competition from foreign companies if the Chinese government removes the barriers against foreign companies into these industries. Some of our larger competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as: · greater financial and other resources; · larger variety of products; · more extensive and advanced supply chain management systems; · greater pricing flexibility; · larger economies of scale and purchasing power; · more extensive advertising and marketing efforts; · greater knowledge of local market conditions; · stronger brand recognition; and · larger sales and distribution networks. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer larger discounts on competing products, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may offer products that are more attractive to our customers or that render our products uncompetitive. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Our retail and wholesale operations require a number of permits and licenses in order to carry on their business. We are required to obtain certain permits and licenses from various PRC governmental authorities, including Drug Distribution Permit and GSP certification. We are also required to obtain food hygiene certificates for the distribution of nutritional supplements and food products. We cannot assure you that we can maintain all required licenses, permits and certifications to carry on our business at all times, and from time to time we may have not been in compliance with all such required licenses, permits and certifications. Moreover, these licenses, permits and certifications are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC governmental authorities and the standards of such renewal or reassessment may change from time to time. We intend to apply for the renewal of these licenses, permits and certifications when required by applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to obtain and maintain all licenses, permits and certifications necessary to carry on our business at any time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any inability to renew these licenses, permits and certifications could severely disrupt our business, and prevent us from continuing to carry on our business. Any changes in the standards used by governmental authorities in considering whether to renew or reassess our business licenses, permits and certifications, as well as any enactment of new regulations that may restrict the conduct of our business, may also decrease our revenue and/or increase our costs and materially reduce our profitability and prospects. Furthermore, if the interpretation or implementation of existing laws and regulations changes or if new regulations come into effect requiring us to obtain any additional licenses, permits or certifications that were previously not required to operate our existing businesses, we cannot assure you that we may successfully obtain such licenses, permits or certifications. 21 The continued penetration of counterfeit products into the pharmaceutical market in China may damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There has been continued penetration of counterfeit products into the pharmaceutical market in China. Counterfeit products are generally sold at lower prices than the authentic products due to their low production costs, and in some cases are very similar in appearance to the authentic products. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals may or may not have the same chemical content as their authentic counterparts, and are typically manufactured without proper licenses or approvals as well as fraudulently mislabeled with respect to their content and/or manufacturer. Although the PRC government has been increasingly active in combating counterfeit pharmaceutical and other products, there is not yet an effective counterfeit pharmaceutical product regulation control and enforcement system in China. Although we have implemented a series of quality control procedures in our procurement process, we cannot assure you that we would not be selling counterfeit pharmaceutical products inadvertently. Any unintentional sale of counterfeit products may subject us to negative publicity, fines and other administrative penalties or even result in litigation against us. Moreover, the continued proliferation of counterfeit products and other products in recent years may reinforce the negative image of drug distributors among consumers in China. The continued proliferation of counterfeit products in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Risks Relating to Our Pharmacy Operations Our operating results are difficult to predict, and we may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors causing these fluctuations include, among others: · our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ demands; · the frequency of customer visits to our drugstores and the quantity and mix of products our customers purchase; · the price we charge for our products or changes in our pricing strategies or the pricing strategies of our competitors; · timing and costs of marketing and promotional programs organized by us and/or our suppliers, including the extent to which we or our suppliers offer promotional discounts to our customers; · our ability to acquire merchandise, manage inventory and fulfill orders; · technical difficulties, system downtime or interruptions that may affect our product selection, procurement, pricing, distribution and retail management processes; · the introduction by our competitors of new products or services; · the effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate them into our business; · changes in government regulations with respect to pharmaceutical and retail industries; and · current economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, a delay in generating revenue for any reason could result in substantial operating losses. Moreover, our business is subject to seasonal variations in demand. In particular, traditional retail seasonality affects the sales of certain pharmaceuticals and other non-pharmaceutical products. Sales of our pharmaceutical products during our fiscal third quarter (October 1st through December 31st) benefit from the winter cold and flu season, and are lower in our fiscal fourth quarter (January 1st through March 31st ) because Chinese New Year falls into that quarter each year and our customers generally pay fewer visits to drugstores during this period. In addition, sales of some health and beauty products are driven, to some extent, by seasonal purchasing patterns and seasonal product changes. Failure to manage the increased sales effectively in the high sale season, and increases in inventory in anticipation of sales increase could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our securities to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. We may not be able to timely identify or otherwise effectively respond to changing customer preferences, and we may fail to optimize our product offering and inventory position. The drugstore industry in China is rapidly evolving and is subject to rapidly changing customer preferences that are difficult to predict. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and identify customer preferences and adapt our product selection to these preferences. In particular, we must optimize our product selection and inventory positions based on sales trends. We cannot assure you that our product selection, especially our selections of nutritional supplements and food products, will accurately reflect customer preferences at any given time. If we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for our products or customers’ purchasing habits or fail to respond to customers’ changing preferences promptly and effectively, we may not be able to adapt our product selection to customer preferences or make appropriate adjustments to our inventory positions, which could significantly reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs. Our success depends on our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including pricing strategies implemented in response to competitive pressures and/or to drive demand for our products. Our advertisements are designed to promote our brand, our corporate image and the prices of products available for sale in our stores. Our pricing strategies and value proposition must be appropriate for our target customers. If we are not able to maintain and increase the awareness of our pharmacy brand, products and services, we may not be able to attract and retain customers and our reputation may also suffer. We expect to incur substantial expenses in our marketing and promotional efforts to both attract and retain customers. However, our marketing and promotional activities may be less successful than we anticipate, and may not be effective at building our brand awareness and customer base. In addition, the government may impose restrictions on how marketing and promotional activities can be conducted. We also cannot assure you that our current and planned spending on marketing activities will be adequate to support our future growth. Failure to successfully execute our advertising, marketing and promotional programs may result in material decreases in our revenue and profitability. 22 Our brand names, trade secrets and other intellectual property are valuable assets. If we are unable to protect them from infringement, our business and prospects may be harmed. We consider three of our pharmacy brand names, namely “Jiuzhou Grand Pharmacy,” “Jiuying Grand Pharmacy” and “Lydia Grand Pharmacy,” to be valuable assets. We may be unable to prevent third parties from using such brand names without authorization, which may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products and services. We have four registered trademarks and one trademark application pending in China. We also own five websites, three of which are currently operating. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our know-how and other proprietary information, including pricing, purchasing, promotional strategies, customer lists and/or suppliers lists. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements, if any, executed by the foregoing persons may not be enforceable or provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. Our employees are required to sign an employment agreement as a condition of employment, which contains a confidentiality provision. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts could be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, if our competitors independently develop information that is equivalent to our trade secrets or other proprietary information, it will be even more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business and prospects could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in the PRC are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. In addition, any litigation or proceeding or other efforts to protect our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could seriously harm our business and operating results. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our proprietary rights is uncertain and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. If we are unable to protect our trade names, trade secrets and other propriety information from infringement, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use our proprietary information and know-how without infringing third party intellectual property rights. As litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources, may have or may obtain intellectual property protection that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to conduct our business in China. Moreover, the defense of intellectual property suits, including trademark infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: · pay damage awards; · seek licenses from third parties; · pay ongoing royalties; · redesign our product offerings; or · be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase from our stores, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Future acquisitions are expected to be a part of our growth strategy, and could expose us to significant business risks. One of our strategies is to grow our business through acquisition. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and secure suitable acquisition opportunities. Our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and, to the extent necessary, our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms for larger acquisitions, if at all. Moreover, if an acquisition target is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions, whether or not ultimately consummated, could also require significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potential disruption of our existing business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that the expected synergies from future acquisitions will actually materialize. In addition, future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs, and contingent liabilities. Future acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: · the integration of new operations, services and personnel; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses; · our inability to generate sufficient revenue to recover costs and expenses of the acquisitions; and · potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers. Any of the above could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence in China may influence the retail industry, consumer preferences and spending patterns. Our business and revenue growth primarily depend on the size of the retail market of pharmaceutical products in China. As a result, our revenue and profitability may be negatively affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence in China. In particular, as we focus our expansion of retail stores in metropolitan markets, where living standards and consumer purchasing power are relatively high, we are especially susceptible to changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and customer preferences of the urban Chinese population. External factors beyond our control that affect consumer confidence include unemployment rates, levels of personal disposable income, national, regional or local economic conditions and acts of war or terrorism. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns. In addition, acts of war or terrorism may cause damage to our facilities, disrupt the supply of the products and services we offer in our stores or adversely impact consumer demand. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The retail prices of some of our products are subject to control, including periodic downward adjustment, by PRC governmental authorities. An increasing percentage of our pharmaceutical products, primarily those included in the national and provincial medical insurance catalogs, are subject to price controls in the form of fixed retail prices or retail price ceilings. See “Relevant PRC Regulations — Price Controls” above. In addition, the retail prices of these products are also subject to periodic downward adjustments as the PRC governmental authorities seek to make pharmaceutical products more affordable to the general public. Since May 1998, the relevant PRC governmental authorities have ordered price reductions of thousands of pharmaceutical products. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, several price reductions occurred and affected 2,824 different prescription pharmaceutical products. Currently, 2,845 of the prescription and OTC drugs that we offer are subject to price controls. 326 of our prescription drug prices required adjustment during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. Any future price controls or government mandated price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including significantly reducing our revenue and profitability. 24 We may be subject to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with the applicable PRC laws and regulations governing sales of medicines under the PRC National Medical Insurance Program. Eligible participants in the PRC national medical insurance program, mainly consisting of urban residents in China, are entitled to buy medicines using their medical insurance cards in an authorized pharmacy, provided that the medicines they purchase have been included in the national or provincial medical insurance catalogs. The pharmacy, in turn, obtains reimbursement from the relevant government social security bureaus. Moreover, the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations prohibit pharmacies from selling goods other than pre-approved medicines when purchases are made with medical insurance cards. We have established procedures to prohibit our drugstores from selling unauthorized goods to customers who make purchases with medical insurance cards. However, we cannot assure you that those procedures will be strictly followed by all of our employees in all of our stores. Risks Relating to Our Medical Services If we do not attract and retain qualified physicians and other medical personnel, our ability to provide medical services would be adversely affected. The success of our medical services will be, in part, dependent upon the number and quality of doctors, nurses and other medical support personnel that we employ and our ability to maintain good relations with them. Our medical staff may terminate their employment with us at any time. If we are unable to successfully maintain good relationships with them, our ability to provide medical services may be adversely affected. The provision of medical services is heavily regulated in the PRC and failure to comply with those regulations could result in penalties, loss of licensure, additional compliance costs or other adverse consequences. Healthcare providers in China, as in most other populous countries, are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the national and local government levels. These laws and regulations relate to: licensing; the conduct of operations; the ownership of facilities; the addition of facilities and services; advertising; confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records; billing for services; and prices for services. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate. In addition, further healthcare legislative reform is likely, and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations in the event we do not comply or if the cost of compliance is expensive. The above list of certain regulated areas is not exhaustive and it is not possible to anticipate the exact nature of future healthcare legislative reform in China. Depending on the priorities determined by the Chinese Ministry of Health, the political climate at any given time, the continued development of the Chinese healthcare system and many other factors, future legislative reforms may be highly diverse, including stringent infection control policies, improved rural healthcare facilities, increased regulation of the distribution of pharmaceuticals and numerous other policy matters. Consequently, the implications of these future reforms could result in penalties, loss of licensure, additional compliance costs or other adverse consequences. As a provider of medical services, we are exposed to inherent risks relating to malpractice claims. As a provider of medical services, any misdiagnosis or improper treatment may result in adverse publicity regarding us, which would harm our reputation. If we are found liable for malpractice claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Furthermore, even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be required to spend significant management, financial and other resources, which could disrupt our business, and our reputation as well as our brand name may also suffer. Because malpractice claims are not common in China, we do not carry malpractice insurance. As a result, any imposition of malpractice liability could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our clinics compete with a large number and variety of healthcare facilities in their respective markets. There are numerous government-run and private hospitals and clinics available to the general populace. There can be no assurance that these or other clinics, hospitals or other facilities will not commence or expand such operations, which would increase their competitive position. Further, there can be no assurance that a healthcare organization, having greater resources in the provision or management of healthcare services, will not decide to engage in operations similar to those being conducted by us in Hangzhou. 25 Risks Related to Our Cultivation of TCM Herbs There is no assurance that our cultivation project will be profitable. At the present, more than ten herbal plants are being cultivated on our leased land in Lin’an, Zhejiang Province, including fructus rubi (used in TCM to promote blood circulation), white atractylodes rhizome (used in TCM to treat physical and mental fatigue), atractylodes macrocephala (used in TCM to control sweating) and gingko seeds (used in TCM to treat asthma), which we have been harvesting since December 2011 and began selling in bulk to third-party vendors in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012. While we have already devoted considerable resources, and may continue to do so in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance that we will ultimately recover our investments or that such endeavor will be profitable to us. Any revenue that we may derive from our cultivation project, if any, is affected by the volatility of prices for TCM raw herbs. The herbs that we are cultivating are sold in bulk to third-party vendors based on market prices primarily determined by TCM manufacturers and TCM trading companies in local markets. Such market prices have increased significantly in recent years in response to changes in the supply of and demand for raw herbs for TCM, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, including inflation, changes of weather, outbreak of disease, domestic government regulation, market speculation and overall economic conditions. We do not and will not have control over the factors affecting prices for the plants that we are planning to distribute in the areas in which we intend to distribute them. There can be no assurance that market prices, which historically have fluctuated widely, will continue to increase or remain stable and any future declines in prices will reduce any revenue, if any, that we may derive from our cultivation project. Unforeseen and severe weather can reduce cultivation activity and lead to a decrease in anticipated harvest of the plants that are being cultivated on our leased land. The climatic and seasonal factors such as weather conditions, level of rainfall and temperature may, among other things, affect the quality, overall supply and availability of raw herbs for TCM, including the plants that are being cultivated on our leased lands. Sustained adverse weather conditions in Zhejiang Province in general and in Lin’an in particular where our cultivation site is located, such as rain, extreme cold or snow could disrupt or curtail cultivation and harvesting activities which in turn could reduce our anticipated harvest yields, delay the timing of our anticipated harvest and distribution, and negatively affect the quality of our harvest. In addition, natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, snowstorms, extreme climatic or weather conditions such as floods or droughts, or natural conditions such as crop disease, pests or soil erosion, may negatively impact the cultivation and harvest of the plants that are being cultivated on our leased land. The occurrence of any of these may reduce the amount of revenue, if any, that we may derive from our cultivation project. In addition, the actual climatic conditions of Zhejiang Province and of Lin’an in particular may not conform to historical patterns and may be affected by variations in weather patterns, including any potential impact of climate change. The effects of climate change may produce more variable or severe weather events that can adversely affect our ability to cultivate and harvest successfully. Each of these events could increase the cost of our cultivation project beyond our anticipation, which in turn could affect our overall profitability. Should the plants that are being cultivated on our leased land ever become contaminated or deteriorate, we may be exposed to negative publicity about product safety which could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Any contamination or deterioration of the plants that are being cultivated on our leased land could harm our reputation and business. Any such contamination or deterioration could result in their recall and criminal or civil liability, and restrict our ability for further distribution, thereby reducing the potential returns, if any, on the resources and efforts that we have invested into our cultivation project. Any resulting negative publicity could also drive consumers away from our pharmacies, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be affected by factors such as negative publicity resulting from the publication of industry findings, research reports or health concerns concerning the safety of TCM products produced in China or the plants that are being cultivated on our leased land in particular. Such complaints and negative publicity may lead to a loss of consumer confidence and a reduction in the demand for TCM or the plants that we are cultivating. We have limited control over the availability and the quality of the local farmers with whom we cooperate because we do not employ them directly. We engage local farmers to harvest the plants being cultivated on our leased land. We do not employ these farmers directly. Instead, the farmers are recruited and employed by the local villagers’ committees that we negotiate with at harvest. We have limited control over the availability and the quality of this labor. A shortage of suitable laborers may adversely affect our harvest yields. 26 Risks Related to Our Online Drugstore Business We rely on computer software and hardware systems in managing our online drugstore, the capacity of which may restrict our growth and the failure of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our electronic commerce system to carry out our online pharmaceutical sales. Any system failure which causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increases in service time could disrupt our normal operation. Although we believe we have a disaster recovery plan, which can handle the failure of our computer software and hardware systems, we cannot assure you that we can effectively carry out this disaster recovery plan and that we will be able to restore our operation within a sufficiently short time frame to avoid disruption to our business. Any failure in our computer software and/or hardware systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the capacity of our computer software and hardware systems fails to meet the increasing needs of our operations, our ability to grow may be constrained. We only recently introduced our online drugstore business and, as a result, it may be difficult to evaluate its performance and prospects. In April 2010, we were granted an Internet Pharmaceutical Transaction Service Qualification Certificate by the State Food and Drug Administration of Zhejiang Province, which allows us to engage in online retail pharmaceutical sales throughout China. In May 2010, we launched www.dada360.com to sell OTC drugs and nutritional supplements online. In July 2010, we established Shouantang Technology as a wholly-owned subsidiary to carry out the internet pharmacy business, and acquired Quannuo Technology in November 2010 to operate the website and provide software and technical support. Our ability to generate a profit from online sales remains unproven. Our online business strategy has not been tested over time and we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully manage or grow our online business. We may incur significant costs as we continue to implement and improve our website. Given the limited operating history of our online business, it may be difficult for you to evaluate its performance and prospects. Uncertainties regarding the growth and sustained profitability of e-commerce in China could adversely affect our online business prospects. While e-commerce has existed in China since the 1990s, only recently have certain e-commerce companies in China become profitable. Thus, the long-term viability and prospects of various e-commerce business models, and e-commerce generally, in China remain relatively untested. Our future operating results from our online drugstore business will depend on numerous factors affecting the development of e-commerce in China, which may be beyond our control. These factors include: · the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband usage and penetration in China, and the rate of any such growth; · the trust and confidence level of consumers in online shopping in China, as well as changes in customer demographics and consumers’ tastes and preferences; · the selection, price and popularity of products that we and our competitors offer on websites; · whether alternative retail channels or business models that better address the needs of consumers emerge in China; · the development of fulfillment, payment and other ancillary services associated with online purchases; and · general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending. A decline in the popularity of shopping on the Internet in general, or failure by us to adapt our website and improve the online shopping experience of our customers in response to trends and consumer needs, may adversely affect our online business prospects. If our online drugstore business fails to obtain and maintain the requisite assets, licenses, qualified personnel and approvals required under the complex regulatory environment for internet-based businesses in China, the business prospects for such business may be materially and adversely affected. Internet-based businesses in China are highly regulated by the PRC government and numerous PRC regulatory authorities are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of these businesses. Our online drugstore business is operated by our PRC subsidiary, Quannuo Technology, which is required to obtain and maintain certain assets relevant to its business, such as computers and other electrical equipment, as well as applicable licenses or approvals from different regulatory authorities. These assets and licenses are essential to the operation of an e-commerce business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant governmental authorities. Furthermore, we may be required to obtain additional licenses. If we fail to obtain or maintain any of the required assets, licenses or approvals, our internet business may be deemed illegal and it may be subject to various penalties, such as confiscation of illegal income, fines and the discontinuation or restriction of its operations. Any such disruption may materially and adversely affect our online business prospects. 27 Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Chinese regulations limit foreign ownership of Chinese pharmacy chain operating 30 or more stores and limit foreign ownership of Chinese medical clinics to Sino-foreign joint venture. Our “Jiuzhou Grand Pharmacy” and “Lydia Grand Pharmacy” stores are operated by Jiuzhou Pharmacy and its subsidiary Shanghai Lydia, and our clinics are operated by Jiuzhou Clinic and Jiuzhou Service, all of which we control by means of contractual arrangements. In addition, we control 51% of Jiuying Pharmacy through contractual arrangements. The validity of such contractual arrangements is uncertain. If the Chinese government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. If the PRC regulatory bodies determine that such contractual arrangements do not comply with PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investment in drugstore and medical practice or in our business generally, we could be subject to severe penalties. In addition, changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. Current PRC regulations limit any foreign investor’s ownership in a drugstore operator to 49.0% if such operator owns interests in more than 30 drugstores in China that sell a variety of branded pharmaceutical products sourced from different suppliers. Since we do not own any equity interests in Jiuzhou Pharmacy (or its subsidiary Shanghai Lydia), but controls it through contractual arrangements with our wholly foreign owned enterprise (“WFOE”), Jiuxin Management, we have been advised by our PRC counsel, Allbright Law Offices (“Allbright”), that the regulations on foreign ownership of drugstores do not apply to us even if Jiuzhou Pharmacy or Shanghai Lydia expands beyond 30 stores. In accordance with PRC regulations, we have 49% equity ownership of Jiuying Pharmacy (through Jiuxin Management and Shouantang Technology), but controls the remaining 51% through contractual arrangements. Similarly, foreign ownership of medical practice in China is limited to means of Sino-foreign joint venture. Since we do not have actual equity interest in Jiuzhou Clinic or Jiuzhou Service, but control these entities through contractual arrangements, Allbright has advised us that the PRC regulations restricting foreign ownership of medical practice are not applicable to us or our structure. There are, however, uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of our contractual arrangements. Although we have been advised by Allbright, that based on their understanding of the current PRC laws, rules and regulations, the structure for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with Jiuzhou Pharmacy, Jiuzhou Clinic, Jiuzhou Service, Jiuying Pharmacy and our three cofounders) comply with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and do not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not determine that our corporate structure and contractual arrangements violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. If the PRC regulatory authorities determine that our contractual arrangements are in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, our contractual arrangements will become invalid or unenforceable, and we may not be able to consolidate the operations of HJ Group or Jiuying Pharmacy with our results of operations. In addition, new PRC laws, rules and regulations may be introduced from time to time to impose additional requirements that may be applicable to our contractual arrangements. For example, pursuant to the PRC Property Rights Law that became effective on October 1, 2007, the pledge of any equity interests of a PRC private entity shall become effective once it is duly registered with the local branches of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (“SAIC”). Following the promulgation of the Property Law, SAIC further issued the Administrative Measures for Registrations of Share Pledge on September 1, 2008, which provided detailed procedural guidance for the local SAIC offices to handle the registrations of share pledge. The Equity Pledge Agreement that forms a part of the contractual arrangements creates a legally binding obligation on the parties upon the execution date; however, the pledge established under such agreement does not become effective until due registration with local SAIC office. On May 18, 2010, registration of the pledged equity interests in Jiuzhou Pharmacy was completed. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are determined to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required governmental permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: 28 · revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC consolidated entities; · discontinuing or restricting the operations of our PRC consolidated entities; · imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC consolidated entities may not be able to comply; · requiring us or our PRC consolidated entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; · restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China; or · imposing fines. The imposition of any of these penalties would severely disrupt our ability to conduct business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in Chinese regulation of drugstores and the practice of medicine. The Chinese government regulates drugstores and the practice of medicine including foreign ownership, and the licensing and permit requirements. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to Chinese government regulation of the industry include the following: · We only have contractual control over HJ Group and 51% of Jiuying Pharmacy. We do not own them due to the restriction of foreign investment in pharmacy chains with 30 or more drugstores and foreign ownership of medical practice. · Uncertainties relating to the regulation of drugstores and medical practice in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, pharmaceutical businesses in China, including our business Our contractual arrangements with HJ Group, Jiuying Pharmacy and our cofounders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. We have no equity ownership interest in HJ Group, and rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate the HJ Group companies and their businesses. And although we have 49% equity ownership of Jiuying Pharmacy, we likewise rely on contractual arrangements to control the remaining 51%. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these companies as direct ownership. For example, any one of them could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If this were to happen, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that our three cofounders will act in our best interests. Because we rely on contractual arrangements to control HJ Group and Jiuying Pharmacy, and for substantially all of our revenue, the termination of such agreements will severely and detrimentally affect our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure. Because neither we nor Jiuxin Management own equity interests of HJ Group, and only have 49% of Jiuying Pharmacy, the termination of our contractual arrangements with them would sever our ability to continue receiving payments from them under our current holding company structure. In the event the contractual arrangements terminate, we will lose our control over them and their business operations, as well as our primary sources of revenue. Should this occur, we may seek to acquire control of HJ Group and Jiuying Pharmacy through other means, although we cannot guarantee that we will do so, nor can we guarantee that we will be successful if we do. We cannot assure you that there will not be any event or reason that may cause the contractual arrangements to terminate. In the event that the contractual arrangements are terminated for any reason, this may have a severe and detrimental effect on our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure, which in turn may affect the value of your investment. We rely principally on dividends paid by our consolidated operating entities to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our consolidated PRC entities to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. 29 We are a holding company, and rely principally on dividends paid by our consolidated PRC operating entities for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur, which are passed on to us through Jiuxin Management. If any of the consolidated operating entities incurs debt in its own name in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends and other distributions on our equity interest. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our consolidated PRC entities only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, our consolidated PRC entities are required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their statutory surplus reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserves reach 50.0% of their respective registered capital. As a result, our consolidated PRC entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of March 31, 2012, our restricted reserves totaled RMB9,460,695 ($1,309,109) and we had unrestricted retained earnings of RMB215,854,168 ($ 31,429,100). Our restricted reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of our consolidated operating entities to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Management members of HJ Group and Jiuying Pharmacy have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business and your ability for recourse. Mr. Lei Liu, our chairman and chief executive officer, is also the executive director of Jiuzhou Pharmacy, a general partner of Jiuzhou Clinic, the supervising director of Jiuzhou Service, and the legal representative of Jiuying Pharmacy. Mr. Chong’an Jin, one of our directors, is the supervising director of Jiuzhou Pharmacy, the managing general partner of Jiuzhou Clinic, the executive director of Jiuzhou Service. Ms. Li Qi, our corporate secretary and also a member of the board of directors, is the general manager of each of Jiuzhou Pharmacy, Jiuzhou Clinic and Jiuzhou Service and a general partner of Jiuzhou Clinic. Conflicts of interests between their respective duties to our company and HJ Group or Jiuying Pharmacy may arise. As our directors and executive officers (in the case of Mr. Liu and Ms. Qi), they have a duty of loyalty and care to us under U.S. and Hong Kong law when there are any potential conflicts of interests between our company and HJ Group or Jiuying Pharmacy. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts of interest arise, every one of them will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. For example, they may determine that it is in HJ Group or Jiuying Pharmacy’s interests to sever the contractual arrangements with Jiuxin Management, irrespective of the effect such action may have on us. In addition, any one of them could violate his or her legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others, thereby affecting the amount of payment that HJ Group or Jiuying Pharmacy is obligated to remit to us under the consulting services agreement. In the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise as a result of any one of the circumstances described above, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against HJ Group or Jiuying Pharmacy, or our officers or directors who are members of their management, all of whom reside within China. Even if you are successful in bringing an action, the laws of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against the assets of HJ Group, Jiuying Pharmacy and their respective management, all of which are located in China. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Jiuzhou Pharmacy, Jiuzhou Clinic, Jiuzhou Service and Jiuying Pharmacy are subject to restrictions on making payments to us. We rely substantially on our contractual arrangements with Jiuzhou Pharmacy, Jiuzhou Clinic, Jiuzhou Service and Jiuying Pharmacy for our revenue. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment.” Furthermore, if these companies incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to make payments. If we are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common shares. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business through our subsidiaries and controlled companies in the PRC. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. We are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. 30 Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We are a holding company and conduct our business through our subsidiaries and controlled companies in the PRC. In addition, all of our operating assets are located in, and all of our other senior executive officers (excepting our chief financial officer) reside within, China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers and directors not residing in the United States, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have substantial difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management or directors than would shareholders of a corporation with assets and management members located in the United States. We may need to obtain additional governmental approvals to open new drugstores. Our inability to obtain such approvals will have a material adverse effect on our business and growth. According to the Measures on the Administration of Foreign Investment in the Commercial Sector promulgated by the PRC Ministry of Commerce (the “Measures”), which became effective on June 1, 2004, a company that is directly owned by a foreign invested enterprise needs to obtain relevant governmental approvals before it opens new retail stores. However, there are no specific laws, rules or regulations with respect to whether it is necessary for a company contractually controlled by a foreign invested enterprise to obtain approvals to open new retail stores. In addition, the Measures state that PRC Ministry of Commerce will promulgate a detailed implementation regulation to govern foreign invested enterprises engaging in drug sale. However, such implementation regulation has not yet been promulgated. Therefore we cannot assure you that the PRC Ministry of Commerce will not require that such approvals to be obtained. If additional governmental approval is deemed to be necessary and we are not able to obtain such approvals on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock, will be materially and adversely affected. The advent of recent healthcare reform directives from the PRC government may increase both competition and our cost of doing business. Under the auspices of the Healthy China 2020 program (the “Program”), published by China’s National Development and Reform Commission in October 2008, the PRC government has set in motion a series of policies in fairly rapid successions aimed to improve China’s healthcare system. Such policies include (1) discouraging hospitals from both prescribing and dispensing medication, (2) the unveiling of formal healthcare reform guidelines in April 2009, aimed to improve the availability of and subsidies for “essential” drugs, and (3) the announcement of China’s National Essential Drugs List (“NEDL”) in August 2009, listing approximately 300 medicines that are expected to be sold at government-controlled prices. While an underlying goal of these policies is to make drugs more accessible to China’s poorer populations, such policy as discouraging hospitals from both prescribing and dispensing medication also serve to create opportunities that in turn will intensify business competition in the Chinese retail drugstore industry, as well as competition for skilled labor and retail spaces. Additionally, we expect the NEDL to lead to a rise in the number of government-subsidized community healthcare service centers, which will erode the convenience and price advantage that our drugstores traditionally enjoy against hospitals. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from payments from the three HJ Group companies. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our subsidiaries and our PRC affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from China State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders. 31 Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues, costs, and financial assets are mostly denominated in RMB while our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, this may result in gains or losses from currency translation on our financial statements. We rely entirely on fees paid to us by our affiliated entities in China. Therefore, any significant fluctuation in the value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would result in foreign currency translation gain for financial reporting purposes when we translate our RMB denominated financial assets into U.S. dollar, as U.S. dollar is our reporting currency. Dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The current PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% is applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Nevada holding company and substantially all of our income is derived from our subsidiaries and controlled companies located in the PRC. Therefore, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law and its implementation regulations to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries, it may have a material and adverse effect on our net income and materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of an epidemic outbreak, such as the SARS epidemic in April 2004. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response may require temporary closure of our stores or offices. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of SARS or any other epidemic. If relations between the United States and China worsen, investors may be unwilling to hold or buy our stock and our stock price may decrease. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had significant disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China, whether or not directly related to our business, could reduce the price of our common stock. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings for our operations. NASDAQ may delist our common stock from trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market for failing to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our common stock and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. From April 1, 2012 through June 22, 2012, our stock had a closing bid price below $1.00 for approximately 20 non-consecutive trading days. If our common stock share price falls below $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ’s Listing Qualifications Department may send us a notice for failing to meet the $1.00 minimum bid price as required under NASDAQ’s Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). Upon receiving such notice, we may be given 180 calendar days pursuant to NASDAQ’s Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A) to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. 32 If NASDAQ delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; · a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock may be substantially less liquid than the average stock quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and such low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although our common stock has been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market since April 22, 2010, the historical trading volume of our common stock has generally been very low. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in the retail pharmacy markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other retail pharmacy operators; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar; · intellectual property litigation; and · general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. Techniques employed by manipulative short sellers in Chinese small-cap stocks may drive down the market price of our common stock. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in the PRC and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stocks can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of the limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed shorts will continue to issue such reports. 33 While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, oftentimes we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy – oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements – should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. Volatility in our common share price may subject us to securities litigation The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. As an illustration of such volatility, the closing price of our common stock during the 52 weeks preceding the date of this report ranged from a low of $0.95 to a high of $2.15. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. Our officers and directors own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock, which will enable them to influence many significant corporate actions and in certain circumstances may prevent a change in control that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. As of June 22, 2012, our directors and executive officers collectively controlled approximately 45.80% of our outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on all corporate actions. These stockholders, acting together, could have a substantial impact on matters requiring the vote of the shareholders, including the election of our directors and most of our corporate actions. This control could delay, defer or prevent others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change in our control, even if these actions would benefit our shareholders and us. This control could adversely affect the voting and other rights of our other shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by us and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our bylaws contain specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders, and we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Nevada law. We may also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our officers. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and there may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. In addition, insurers are likely to increase premiums as a result of high claims rates over the past several years, which we expect will increase our premiums for insurance policies. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We reported certain material weaknesses involving control activities, specifically control deficiency over accounting and finance personnel, in light of the continuing lack of sufficient experience by our accounting staff in U.S. GAAP-based reporting and SEC rules and regulations. Such material weaknesses were noted for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, based on factors including: (i) the number of adjustments proposed by our independent auditors during our quarterly review and annual audit processes; (ii) the significance of the audit adjustments impact on the overall financial statements; (iii) how appropriately we complied with U.S. GAAP on transactions; and (iv) how accurately we prepared supporting information to provide to our independent auditors on a quarterly and annual basis. As such, we did not maintain effective controls and did not implement adequate and proper supervisory review to ensure that significant internal control deficiencies can be detected or prevented. 34 Although we believe that we have made significant efforts to address the foregoing weaknesses, we believe that our efforts to date have not yet been sufficient to fully remediate such weaknesses. We will continue our efforts during the fiscal year ending March 31, 2013, although there can be no assurance that compliance will be achieved in this time frame. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of the 13,571,553 shares of our common stock outstanding as of June 12, 2012, approximately 7,379,362 shares are, or will be, freely tradable without restriction, unless held by our affiliates as of such date. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If our cofounders and service consultants were to sell their shares, they would be subject to volume and/or other restrictions imposed by Rule 144. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 