Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. If A. H. Belo is unable to respond to evolving industry trends and changes in technology, its business may not be able to compete effectively. Print circulation and readership of A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry overall, are subject to competition and, in particular, are being affected by the preferences of some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news in new media formats and from sources other than traditional newspapers, and by the proliferation of these new media formats and sources. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as the Internet, various mobile devices, cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized newspaper readership. Over the past decade, the Internet, cable television programming services, and other emerging media distribution platforms have captured increasing market share, while the aggregate print circulation of the major newspapers has declined due to the factors cited above as well as conscious decisions by newspaper publishers to reduce distribution to core geographies. The continued economic slowdown in the United States and the national and worldwide financial instability may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Among other things, these negative economic trends may continue to adversely affect demand for advertising, reduce the availability and increase the cost of short-term funds for liquidity requirements, and adversely affect our ability to meet long- term commitments. The continued economic slowdown in the United States has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our business by reducing demand for local and national advertising. Expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Further, advertising demand is a factor in determining advertising rates. A decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for advertising in the Company’s newspapers can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising revenue, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, carrying value of assets and results of operations. The continued economic slowdown in the United States has increased the Company’s exposure to losses resulting from the potential bankruptcy of advertising customers. The Company’s accounts receivable are stated at net estimated realizable value and the allowance for doubtful accounts has been determined based on several factors, including the age of receivables, significant individual credit risk and historical experience. If such collectibility estimates prove inaccurate, adjustments to future operating results could occur. Our ability to access funds under our Credit Agreement depends, in part, on our compliance with certain financial covenants in the agreement. The Credit Agreement is subject to a borrowing base. If the borrowing capacity under the agreement becomes less than $17,500, then a fixed charge coverage ratio covenant of 1:1 will apply. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced since mid-2008, could also adversely affect our ability to draw on our Credit Agreement. Our access to funds under the Credit Agreement is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions, could limit our access to the liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs, if then available or available on favorable terms, can be arranged. PAGE 8 A. H. Belo Corporation 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents Decreases in advertising spending resulting from an economic downturn, business combinations, natural disasters, war, terrorism, or other factors specific to the communities served by the Company, could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, A. H. Belo’s revenues are subject to seasonal, cyclical, and other fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Advertising revenue has been approximately 68 percent, 76 percent and 81 percent of A. H. Belo’s revenues for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a prolonged recession or economic downturn could have a further adverse effect on A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. A. H. Belo’s advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities served by the Company. Changes in those factors could affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores, and local economic conditions in general. A. H. Belo’s revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical, and other fluctuations that are expected to continue. Seasonal and cyclical factors that affect A. H. Belo’s revenues and results of operations may be beyond our control, including changes in the pricing policies of competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, changes in newsprint prices, and general economic factors. Fluctuations in revenues and results of operations may have an adverse effect on A. H. Belo’s stock price. A. H. Belo’s businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and our ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively the Company competes with existing and new competition. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. A. H. Belo’s newspapers compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other newspapers as well as with the Internet, magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, radio, direct mail, yellow pages and other media. Some of A. H. Belo’s current and potential competitors have greater financial and other resources. A. H. Belo’s newspaper publications generate significant percentages of their advertising revenues from a finite number of sources. In recent years, Web sites dedicated to automotive, employment, real estate, and general classified advertising have become significant competitors of A. H. Belo’s newspapers and Web sites. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, technological, industry, and other changes specific to these advertising sources could reduce advertising revenues and adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. A. H. Belo’s revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional, and national newspapers (including free daily newspapers), magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, radio, direct mail, yellow pages, the Internet, and other media. The National Do Not Call Registry has affected the way newspapers solicit home-delivery circulation, particularly for larger newspapers that historically have relied on telemarketing. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics, and circulation. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality, and customer service. A. H. Belo’s local and regional competitors include newspapers that are typically unique to each market, but the Company has competitors for advertising revenues that are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources. Circulation revenues and our ability to achieve price increases for our print products may be affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among certain demographics. A. H. Belo may incur higher costs competing for advertising dollars and paid circulation, and if the Company is not able to compete effectively for advertising dollars and paid circulation, revenues may decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Decreases in circulation may adversely affect A. H. Belo’s advertising and circulation revenues. The table below presents the components of our net operating revenues for the last three years: Percentage Percentage Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Advertising $ 352,368 (27.3 )% $ 484,437 (19.3 )% $ 600,335 Circulation 136,549 10.7 % 123,381 9.5 % 112,635 Other 29,431 (0.2 )% 29,496 14.8 % 25,698 Net operating revenues $ 518,348 (18.7 )% $ 637,314 (13.7 )% $ 738,668 A. H. Belo Corporation 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 9 Table of Contents A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry as a whole, are experiencing challenges to maintain and grow print circulation. A significant decline in circulation could affect the rate and volume of advertising revenues. To maintain our circulation base, A. H. Belo may incur additional costs, and may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. The Company may increase spending on marketing designed to retain our existing subscriber base and continue or create niche publications targeted at specific market groups. The Company may also increase marketing efforts to drive traffic to our proprietary Web sites. A significant increase in the price of newsprint, or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s publishing business. The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint, the cost of which for the last three years has represented between approximately 9 and 12 percent of A. H. Belo’s revenues. The price of newsprint historically has been volatile. Consolidation in the North American newsprint industry has reduced the number of suppliers and has led to paper mill closures and conversions to other grades of paper, which in turn has decreased overall newsprint capacity and increased the likelihood of higher prices. A. H. Belo currently purchases most of its newsprint through a purchasing consortium. Our inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future or significant increases in newsprint costs could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse results from pending or new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. From time to time A. H. Belo and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation, governmental proceedings, and investigations. Current matters include those described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require A. H. Belo to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could affect adversely our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A. H. Belo depends on key personnel and may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if A. H. Belo loses the services of any of our senior executive officers or is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. A. H. Belo relies on the efforts of its senior executive officers. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and A. H. Belo may not be able to retain its key personnel. The Company has not entered into employment agreements with key management personnel and does not have “key person” insurance for any of our senior executive officers or other key personnel. To mitigate this risk, A. H. Belo has a change in control severance plan covering key management personnel that is triggered under certain conditions if a change in control occurs. A. H. Belo’s business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes by our employees. Currently, one of A. H. Belo’s primary newspapers (The Providence Journal), is party to collective bargaining agreements with unions representing approximately 320 of its employees. All of these agreements expire within approximately three years, unless extended. A. H. Belo cannot predict the results of negotiation of future collective bargaining agreements, whether future collective bargaining agreements will be negotiated without interruptions in our business, or what the possible effect of future collective bargaining agreements will be on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company also cannot assume that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A. H. Belo has a limited operating history as a separate public company and may be unable to operate profitably as a stand-alone company. A. H. Belo has operated as a separate public company since February 8, 2008. Prior to that date, the businesses that comprise A. H. Belo and Belo Corp. were under one ultimate parent corporation, and each of those businesses was able to rely to some degree on the earnings, assets, and cash flow of the other for capital requirements. After the Distribution, A. H. Belo now relies only on the newspaper business and related businesses for such requirements. A. H. Belo cannot give assurances that, as a separate public company, operating results will continue at historical levels, or that the Company will be profitable. PAGE 10 A. H. Belo Corporation 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents The historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not reflect what A. H. Belo’s results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would have been had it been a separate public company during the periods prior to the Distribution, or be indicative of what its results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be in the future as a separate public company. A. H. Belo’s historical financial information prior to the Distribution reflects allocations for services historically provided by Belo Corp., and these allocated costs may be different from the actual costs A. H. Belo incurs for these services in the future as a separate public company. A. H. Belo has replicated certain systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which it no longer has access after the Distribution from Belo and will continue to dedicate resources in building these capabilities. In addition to any adverse operational effect on A. H. Belo’s business as a result of the significant time A. H. Belo’s management and other employees will need to dedicate to building these capabilities, A. H. Belo may incur capital and other costs associated with developing and implementing its own support functions in these areas. Declines in A. H. Belo’s stock price could lead to delisting on the New York Stock Exchange. Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), our common stock is required to maintain a minimum $1.00 average closing price in order to qualify for continued listing on the NYSE. In addition, the Company must maintain an average market capitalization of $15 million. Since becoming a public company, A. H. Belo’s stock price has declined and at times during 2009 has traded below $1.00. At March 31, 2010 the Company’s stock price closed at $7.20 per share. If the Company’s average closing price falls below the $1.00 minimum over a consecutive 30-day trading period or the Company’s market capitalization falls below an average of $15 million over a consecutive 30-day trading period, then the Company’s stock could be delisted from the NYSE. Delisting of our common stock by the NYSE could have a material adverse effect on the market value and liquidity of the Company’s stock. Certain institutional holders of our common stock may be prohibited from investing in our stock if it is delisted or fails to meet minimum liquidity or price requirements. Further, delisting of our common stock could impair our ability to provide equity incentives to employees, officers and directors. No assurance can be given that our common stock will remain in compliance with the NYSE’s listing requirements. A. H. Belo may incur increased expenses if the services agreement with Belo is terminated. In connection with the Distribution, A. H. Belo entered into a services agreement with Belo Corp. This agreement provides that A. H. Belo and Belo will furnish services to each other. If the agreement is terminated for any reason, A. H. Belo would need to obtain these services from another provider or decide to perform these services itself, which could affect the efficiency and costs of A. H. Belo’s operations. A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers have significant combined voting power and significant influence over our management and affairs. Our directors and executive officers hold approximately 52 percent of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock as of March 1, 2010. A. H. Belo’s Series A common stock has one vote per share and Series B common stock has ten votes per share. Generally, except for certain extraordinary corporate transactions, all matters to be voted on by A. H. Belo’s shareholders must be approved by a majority of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Certain extraordinary corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our property and assets, or a dissolution, the alteration, amendment, or repeal of A. H. Belo’s bylaws by shareholders, and certain amendments to A. H. Belo’s certificate of incorporation, require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Accordingly, A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers will have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. This ownership may limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, A. H. Belo may take actions that many shareholders do not view as beneficial. Certain members of management, directors, and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. A. H. Belo and Belo Corp. have several directors in common. Robert W. Decherd serves as the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Belo and as Chairman of the Board, president and Chief Executive Officer of A. H. Belo. Mr. Decherd and Dealey D. Herndon, his sister, serve as directors of A. H. Belo and Belo. James M. Moroney III, executive vice president of A. H. Belo and the Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of The Dallas Morning News, is their second cousin. Mr. Moroney also serves as a director of Belo. In addition, the management and directors of both companies own common stock in both companies. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when A. H. Belo’s and Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for A. H. Belo and A. H. Belo Corporation 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 11 Table of Contents Belo. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between A. H. Belo and Belo regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Distribution and the relationship between, as well as other agreements between, A. H. Belo and Belo. Our potential inability to execute cost control measures successfully could result in total operating costs that are greater than expected. We have taken steps to lower our costs by reducing staff and employee benefits and implementing general cost-control measures, and expect to continue cost control efforts. If we do not achieve expected savings as a result or if our operating costs increase as a result of the creation and development of new products or otherwise, our total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. Although we believe that appropriate steps have been and are being taken to implement cost control efforts, if not managed properly, such efforts may affect the quality of our products, our ability to generate future revenue, and compliance with the financial covenants as outlined in our Credit Agreement. In addition, reductions in staff and employee benefits could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. As disclosed in Belo’s December 31, 2009 Form 10-K, the Pension Plan was underfunded at December 31, 2009 by $196,000, of which A. H. Belo’s 60% percent reimbursement obligation to Belo is $118,000. The Company expects it will be required to make significant future contributions to the Pension Plan. Additionally, if the investments in the Pension Plan do not perform as expected, we may have to contribute additional amounts to Belo to fund the plan, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses. Prior to the Distribution, some of the Company’s employees participated in the Pension Plan. Subsequent to the Distribution of A. H. Belo, Belo retained sponsorship of the Pension Plan and, jointly with A. H. Belo, oversees the investments of the Pension Plan. Belo administers benefits for the Belo and A. H. Belo current and former employees who participate in the Pension Plan in accordance with the terms of the Pension Plan. As sponsor of the Pension Plan, Belo will be solely responsible for satisfying the funding obligations with respect to the Pension Plan fund as determined using actuarial assumptions. A. H. Belo is contractually obligated to reimburse Belo for 60 percent of each contribution Belo makes to the Pension Plan. The plan’s assets consist primarily of common stocks, fixed income securities and alternative investments. Market declines, longevity increases or legislative changes, such as the Pension Protection Act in the U.S., could result in a prospective increase the amount we must reimburse Belo which would result in a decrease in our available cash flow and net earnings over time. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business may be adversely affected if we do not remediate this material weakness, or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. In connection with their evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, our chief executive officer (“CEO”) and chief financial officer (“CFO”) concluded that a material weakness exists in our internal control over financial reporting. This material weakness relates to a misapplication of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in the selection of the accounting principle used to account for the Company’s contractual obligation to Belo Corp. (Belo) under the employee matters agreement entered into in conjunction with the Distribution. Specifically, the Company’s processes, procedures and controls related to financial reporting were not effective to ensure there was comprehensive analysis, documentation and review over the accounting for the Company’s contractual obligation to reimburse Belo for 60 percent of Belo’s future contributions to the Pension Plan in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. As more fully described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in this report, our management and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors (“Audit Committee”) concluded that the Company’s previously reported consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 should be restated to correct accounting errors resulting from this material weakness. We have identified a number of measures to strengthen our internal control over financial reporting and address the material weakness that we identified (See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures contained in this report). The existence of one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business and our business and financial condition could be harmed. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. PAGE 12 A. H. Belo Corporation 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents 