ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investors should be aware that any purchase of our securities involves certain risks, including those described below, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We do not make, nor have we authorized any other person to make, any representation about the future market value of our common stock. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report, the following factors should be considered carefully in evaluating an investment in our securities. Laws and Regulations Our operations will be affected from time to time and in varying degrees by political developments and federal and state laws and regulations regarding the development, production and sale of crude oil and natural gas. These regulations require permits for drilling of wells and also cover the spacing of wells, the prevention of waste, and other matters. Rates of production of oil and gas have for many years been subject to federal and state conservation laws and regulations. In addition, the production of oil or gas may be interrupted or terminated by governmental authorities due to ecological and other considerations. Compliance with these regulations may require a significant capital commitment by and expense to us and may delay or otherwise adversely affect our operations. From time to time legislation has been proposed relating to various conservation and other measures designed to decrease dependence on foreign oil. No prediction can be made as to what additional legislation may be proposed or enacted. Oil and gas producers may face increasingly stringent regulation in the years ahead and a general hostility towards the oil and gas industry on the part of a portion of the public and of some public officials. Future regulation will probably be determined by a number of economic and political factors beyond our control or the oil and gas industry. Our activities are subject to existing federal and state laws and regulations governing environmental quality and pollution control. Compliance with environmental requirements and reclamation laws imposed by federal, state, and local governmental authorities may necessitate significant capital outlays and may materially affect our earnings. It is impossible to predict the impact of environmental legislation and regulations (including regulations restricting access and surface use) on our operations in the future although compliance may necessitate significant capital outlays, materially affect our earning power or cause material changes in our intended business. In addition, we may be exposed to potential liability for pollution and other damages. Dry holes and non-productive wells Oil and gas exploration is not an exact science, and involves a high degree of risk. The primary risk lies in the drilling of dry holes or drilling and completing wells, which, though productive, do not produce gas and/or oil in sufficient amounts to return the amounts expended and produce a profit. Hazards, such as unusual or unexpected formation pressures, downhole fires, blowouts, loss of circulation of drilling fluids and other conditions are involved in drilling and completing oil and gas wells and, if such hazards are encountered, completion of any well may be substantially delayed or prevented. In addition, adverse weather conditions can hinder or delay operations, as can shortages of equipment and materials or unavailability of drilling, completion, and/or work-over rigs. Even though a well is completed and is found to be productive, water and/or other substances may be encountered in the well, which may impair or prevent production or marketing of oil or gas from the well. Exploratory drilling involves substantially greater economic risks than development drilling because the percentage of wells completed as producing wells is usually less than in development drilling. Exploratory drilling itself can be of varying degrees of risk and can generally be divided into higher risk attempts to discover a reservoir in a completely unproven area or relatively lower risk efforts in areas not too distant from existing reservoirs. While exploration adjacent to or near existing reservoirs may be more likely to result in the discovery of oil and gas than in completely unproven areas, exploratory efforts are nevertheless high risk activities. Although the completion of oil and gas wells is, to a certain extent, less risky than drilling for oil and gas, the process of completing an oil or gas well is nevertheless associated with considerable risk. In addition, even if a well is completed as a producer, the well for a variety of reasons may not produce oil or gas in quantities sufficient to repay our investment in the well. 14 The acquisition, exploration and development of oil and gas properties, and the production and sale of oil and gas are subject to many factors not under our control. These factors include, among others, general economic conditions, proximity to pipelines, oil import quotas, supply, demand, and price of other fuels and the regulation of production, refining, transportation, pricing, marketing and taxation by various governmental authorities. Supply and demand Buyers of our gas, if any, may refuse to purchase gas from us in the event of oversupply. If we drill wells that are productive of natural gas, the quantities of gas that we may be able to sell may be too small to pay for the expenses of operating the wells. In such a case, the wells would be "shut-in" until such time, if ever, that economic conditions permit the sale of gas in quantities which would be profitable. Insurable risks, defects, and hazards Interests that we may acquire in oil and gas properties may be subject to royalty and overriding royalty interests, liens incident to operating agreements, liens for current taxes and other burdens and encumbrances, easements and other restrictions, any of which may subject us to future undetermined expenses. We do not intend to purchase title insurance, title memos, or title certificates for any leasehold interests we will acquire. It is possible that at some point we will have to undertake title work involving substantial costs. In addition, it is possible that we may suffer title failures resulting in significant losses. The drilling of oil and gas wells involves hazards such as blowouts, unusual or unexpected formations, pressures or other conditions, which could result in substantial losses or liabilities to third parties. Although we intend to acquire adequate insurance, or to be named as an insured under coverage acquired by others (e.g., the driller or operator), we may not be insured against all such losses because insurance may not be available, premium costs may be deemed unduly high, or for other reasons. Accordingly, uninsured liabilities to third parties could result in the loss of our funds or property. Opposition to Hydraulic Fracturing Hydraulic fracturing, the process used for releasing oil and gas from shale rock, has recently come under increased scrutiny and could be the subject of further regulation that could impact the timing and cost of development. While companies have been using the technique for decades, as drilling expands to more populated areas, environmentalists raise concern about the effects on the population’s health and drinking water. In April of this year, the Obama administration proposed the first national standards to control air pollution from gas wells stimulated by hydraulic fracturing. The EPA published claims that the new regulations would ensure pollution is controlled without slowing natural gas production, actually resulting in more product for fuel suppliers to bring to market. The proposal would restrict the venting of gases during the well completion phase, and require the implementation of a new technology to reduce emissions of pollutants during completion of wells. Implementation of the pollution-reducing equipment for so-called “green completions” is required by January 2015. Locally, some counties and municipalities are attempting to impose more stringent regulations than those required by the Colorado Oil and Gas Conservation Commission. Litigation has been initiated to determine the legality of these attempts. Depending on the legislation that may ultimately be enacted or the regulations that may be adopted at the federal, state and/or local levels, exploration and production activities that entail hydraulic fracturing could be subject to additional regulation and permitting requirements. Individually or collectively, such new legislation or regulation could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional burdens that could increase the costs and delay the development of unconventional oil and gas resources from shale formations which are not commercial without the use of hydraulic fracturing. This could have an adverse effect on our business. Related Party Transactions Our transactions with related parties may cause conflicts of interests that may adversely affect us. Ed Holloway and William E. Scaff, Jr., both of whom are officers, directors and principal shareholders, control two entities, Petroleum Exploration & Management, LLC ("PEM") and HS Land & Cattle, LLC (“HSLC”), with whom we do business. We presently lease the Platteville office space and equipment storage yard from HSLC at a rate of $15,000 per month. During 2011, we purchased all of the operating oil and gas assets owned by PEM. Material transactions with related parties are approved by our independent directors. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with these affiliates are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our board of directors is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and these affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public's perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. 15 Funding Our failure to obtain capital may significantly restrict our proposed operations. We may need additional capital to fund our capital expenditure plans. We do not know what the terms of any future capital raising may be but any future sale of our equity securities would dilute the ownership of existing stockholders and could be at prices substantially below the price investors paid for their shares of our common stock. Our failure to obtain the capital required will result in the slower implementation of our business plan. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the necessary capital. We will need to consistently generate positive cash flow or obtain additional financing to consistently yield sufficient cash for the growth of our operations and to execute our strategic business plan. Market for our Common Stock Although our common stock has been listed on the NYSE MKT since July 27, 2011, the trading in our stock has, at times, been limited and sporadic. Additionally, the trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. Factors that could negatively affect our share price include, but are not limited to: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; · liquidity; · sales of common stock by our shareholders; · changes in oil and natural gas prices; · changes in our cash flow from operations or earnings estimates; · publication of research reports about us or the oil and natural gas exploration and production industry generally; · increases in market interest rates which may increase our cost of capital; · changes in applicable laws or regulations, court rulings and enforcement and legal actions; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by our shareholders; · political opposition to the oil and gas industry · commencement of or involvement in litigation; · news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry; · speculation in the press or investment community regarding our business; · general market and economic conditions; and · domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. Shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options may substantially increase the number of shares available for sale in the public market and may depress the price of our common stock. We have outstanding options and warrants which could potentially allow the holders to acquire a substantial number of shares of our common stock. Until the options and warrants expire, the holders will have an opportunity to profit from any increase in the market price of our common stock without assuming the risks of ownership. Holders of options and warrants may exercise these securities at a time when we could obtain additional capital on terms more favorable than those provided by the options or warrants. The exercise of the options and warrants will dilute the voting interest of the current owners of our outstanding shares by adding a substantial number of additional shares of common stock. 16 Reliance on Key Personnel We are dependent upon the contributions of our senior management team and other key employees for our success. If one or more of these executives, or other key employees, were to cease to be employed by us, our progress could be adversely affected. In particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior executive officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 