D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our limited operating history, especially our limited experience in distributing life insurance products, may not provide an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We commenced our insurance intermediary business in 1999 by distributing automobile insurance products and expanded our offerings to other types of property and casualty insurance products in 2002. We started distributing individual life insurance products in January 2006. By May 31, 2008, we had acquired, through our consolidated affiliated entities, equity interests ranging from 55% to 100% in five insurance agencies that specialize in distributing life insurance products. Life insurance products accounted for 8.4% and 10.3% of our total commissions and fees earned in 2006 and 2007, respectively. We have made the distribution of life insurance products one of the focuses of our future growth strategy. We cannot assure you that this strategic move will be successfully implemented. If our life insurance business fails to grow successfully, our future growth will be significantly affected. In addition, our limited operating history, especially our limited experience in selling life insurance products, may not provide a meaningful basis for you to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects. If we fail to attract and retain productive agents, especially entrepreneurial agents, our business could suffer. A substantial portion of our sales of property and casualty insurance products and our entire sales of life insurance products are conducted through our individual sales agents, who are not our employees. In 2007, individual sales agents contributed approximately 84.8% of our commissions and fees earned from property and casualty insurance products. Some sales agents are more productive than others. Further, in recent years, some entrepreneurial management staff or senior sales agents of major insurance companies in China have chosen to leave their employers or principals and become independent agents. We refer to these individuals as entrepreneurial agents. An entrepreneurial agent is usually able to assemble and lead a team of sales agents. We have been actively recruiting and will continue to recruit entrepreneurial agents to join our distribution network as our sales agents. Entrepreneurial agents have been instrumental to the development of our life insurance business. If we are unable to attract, retain and build on the core group of highly productive agents and entrepreneurial agents, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Competition for agents from insurance companies and other insurance intermediaries may also force us to increase the compensation of our agents and in-house sales representatives, which would increase operating costs and reduce our profitability. We may be unsuccessful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could adversely affect our growth. We expect a significant portion of our future growth to come from acquisitions of high-quality independent insurance agencies, brokerages and claims adjusting companies. There is no assurance that we can successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, especially in those provinces where we do not yet have a presence. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete an acquisition on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. In addition, we compete with other entities to acquire high-quality independent insurance agencies, 7 Table of Contents brokerages and claims adjusting companies. Many of our competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to outbid us for these acquisition targets. If we are unable to complete acquisitions, our growth strategy will be impeded and our earnings or revenue growth will be negatively affected. If we fail to integrate acquired companies efficiently, or if the acquired companies do not perform to our expectations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Even if we succeed in acquiring other insurance agencies, brokerages and claims adjusting companies, our ability to integrate an acquired entity and its operations is subject to a number of factors. These factors include difficulties in the integration of acquired operations and retention of personnel, especially the sales agents who are not employees of the acquired company, entry into unfamiliar markets, unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, and tax and accounting issues. The need to address these factors may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and materially and adversely affect our business prospects. In addition, costs associated with integrating newly acquired companies could negatively affect our operating margins. Furthermore, the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the insurance products in which a company specializes, the loss of key clients after the acquisition closes, general economic factors that impact a company in a direct way and the cultural incompatibility of an acquired company’s management team with us. If an acquired company could not be operated at the same profitability level as our existing operations, the acquisition would have a negative impact on our operating margin. Our inability to successfully integrate an acquired entity or its failure to perform to our expectations may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and prospects could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage our growth successfully. We commenced our insurance intermediary business in 1999 and have expanded our operations substantially in recent years. Our distribution network expanded from one company in one province to 33 insurance agencies and brokerages in 13 provinces as of May 31, 2008. In addition, we have expanded our service offerings to cover insurance claims adjusting services. We anticipate significant continued growth in the future through multiple means, including franchising. Our expansion has placed, and will continue to place, substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. To manage and support our continued growth, we must continue to improve our operational, administrative, financial and technological systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee and agent base. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and expand our relationships with insurance companies, other insurance intermediaries, regulators and other third parties. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion could materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Because the commission and fee revenue we earn on the sale of insurance products is based on premiums and commission and fee rates set by insurance companies, any decrease in these premiums or commission and fee rates may have an adverse effect on our results of operation. We are engaged in the insurance agency and brokerage business and derive revenues primarily from commissions and fees paid by the insurance companies whose policies our customers purchase. The commission and fee rates are set by insurance companies and are based on the premiums that the insurance companies charge. Commission and fee rates and premiums can change based on the prevailing economic, regulatory, taxation and competitive factors that affect insurance companies. These factors, which are not within our control, include the capacity of insurance companies to place new business, underwriting and non-underwriting profits of insurance 8 Table of Contents companies, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance companies at a lower cost, the availability of alternative insurance products, such as government benefits and self-insurance plans, to consumers and the tax deductibility of commissions and fees. In addition, premium rates for certain insurance products, such as the mandatory automobile liability insurance that each automobile owner in the PRC is legally required to purchase, are tightly regulated by China Insurance Regulatory Commission, or the CIRC. Because we do not determine, and cannot predict, the timing or extent of premium or commission and fee rate changes, we cannot predict the effect any of these changes may have on our operations. Since China’s entry into the WTO in December 2001, intense competition among insurance companies has led to a gradual decline in premium rate levels of some property and casualty insurance products. Although such decline may stimulate demand for insurance products and increase our total sales volume, it also reduces the commissions and fees we earned on each policy sold. Any decrease in premiums or commission and fee rates may significantly affect our profitability. In addition, our budget for future acquisitions, capital expenditures and other expenditures may be disrupted by unexpected decreases in revenues caused by decreases in premiums or commission and fee rates, thereby adversely affecting our operations. Competition in our industry is intense and, if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose customers and our financial results may be negatively affected. The insurance intermediary industry in China is highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We face competition from insurance companies that use their in-house sales force and exclusive sales agents to distribute their products, from business entities that distribute insurance products on an ancillary basis, such as commercial banks, postal offices and automobile dealerships, and from other professional insurance intermediaries. We compete for customers on the basis of product offerings, customer services and reputation. Many of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may be able to offer products and services that we do not currently offer and may not offer in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively against those competitors, we may lose customers and our financial results may be negatively affected. Quarterly and annual variations in our commission and fee revenue may have unexpected impacts on our results of operations. Our commission and fee revenue is subject to both quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of the seasonality of our business, the timing of policy renewals and the net effect of new and lost business. Historically, our commission and fee revenue for the fourth quarter of any given year has been the highest among all four quarters, while our commission and fee revenue for the first quarter of any given year has been the lowest among all four quarters. The factors that cause the quarterly and annual variations are not within our control. Specifically, consumer demand for insurance products can influence the timing of renewals, new business and lost business, which generally includes policies that are not renewed, and cancellations. As a result, you may not be able to rely on quarterly or annual comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. If our contracts with insurance companies are terminated or changed, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We primarily act as agents for insurance companies in distributing their products to retail customers. Our relationships with the insurance companies are governed by agreements between us and the insurance companies. Most of our contracts with insurance companies are entered into at a local level between their respective provincial, city and district branches and our affiliated insurance agencies and brokerages. Generally, each branch of these insurance companies has independent authority to enter into contracts with our affiliated insurance agencies and brokerages, and the termination of a contract with one branch has no effect on our contracts with the other branches. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Insurance 9 Table of Contents Company Partners.” These contracts establish, among other things, the scope of our authority, the pricing of the insurance products we distribute and our fee rates. These contracts typically have a term of a year and some of them can be terminated by the insurance companies with little advance notice. Moreover, before or upon expiration of a contract, the insurance company that is a party to that contract may agree to renew it only with changes in its terms, including the amount of commissions and fees we receive, which could reduce our revenues from that contract. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our top five insurance company partners, after aggregating the business conducted between their local branches and our insurance agencies and brokerages, were PICC Property and Casualty Company Limited, or PICC, China Pacific Property Insurance Co., Ltd, or China Pacific Property, Ping An Property & Casualty Insurance Company of China, Ltd., or Ping An Property, AVIVA-COFCO Life Insurance Co., Ltd., or AVIVA-COFCO, and Sunshine Property and Casualty Insurance Co., Ltd., or Sunshine Property. Among them, PICC, China Pacific Property and Ping An Property each accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenues in 2007, with PICC accounting for 33%, China Pacific accounting for 15% and Ping An accounting for 11%. The termination of our contracts with insurance companies that in the aggregate account for a significant portion of our business, or changes in the material terms of these contracts, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operating structure may make it difficult to respond quickly to operational or financial problems, which could negatively affect our financial results. We operate through affiliated insurance agencies, brokerages and claims adjusting companies located in 13 provinces. These companies report their results to our corporate headquarters monthly. If these companies delay either reporting results or informing corporate headquarters of a negative business development such as the possible loss of a relationship with an insurance company or a regulatory inquiry or other action, we may not be able to take action to remedy the situation in a timely fashion. This in turn could have a negative effect on our financial results. In addition, if one of these companies were to report inaccurate financial information, we might not learn of the inaccuracies on a timely basis and be able to take corrective measures promptly, which could negatively affect our ability to report our financial results. Our dependence on the founders and key managers of the acquired firms may limit our ability to effectively manage our business. In the acquisitions we have completed to date, the founders and key managers of the acquired firms continue to manage the acquired business. They are responsible for ordinary course operational decisions, including personnel and office location, subject to our oversight. They also maintain the primary relationship with customers and the local branches of insurance companies. Although we maintain internal controls to oversee our nationwide operations, this operating structure exposes us to the risk of losses resulting from day-to-day decisions of the managers of the acquired firms. Unsatisfactory performance by these managers could hinder our ability to grow and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success depends on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel, and our business may be harmed if we lose their services. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team and other key personnel, in particular Mr. Yinan Hu, our chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Qiuping Lai, our president, and Mr. Peng Ge, our chief financial officer and vice president. In addition, because of the importance of training to our business, our team of dedicated training professionals plays a key role in our operations. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel, including key training personnel, are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, the pool of qualified candidates is very 10 Table of Contents limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain high- quality senior executives or key personnel in the future. As is customary in the PRC, we do not have insurance coverage for the loss of our senior management team or other key personnel. In addition, if any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, sensitive trade information and key professionals and staff members. Each of our executive officers and key employees has entered into an employment agreement with us which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. These agreements generally have an initial term of three years, and are automatically extended for successive one-year terms unless terminated earlier pursuant to the terms of the agreement. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Employment Agreements” for a more detailed description of the key terms of these employment agreements. If any disputes arise between any of our senior executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you of the extent to which any of these agreements may be enforced. Agent and employee misconduct is difficult to detect and deter and could harm our reputation or lead to regulatory sanctions or litigation costs. Agent or employee misconduct could result in violations of law by us, regulatory sanctions, litigation or serious reputational or financial harm. Misconduct could include: • engaging in misrepresentation or fraudulent activities when marketing or selling insurance products to customers; • hiding unauthorized or unsuccessful activities, resulting in unknown and unmanaged risks or losses; or • otherwise not complying with laws and regulations or our control policies or procedures. We cannot always deter agent or employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect these activities may not be effective in all cases. We cannot assure you, therefore, that agent or employee misconduct will not lead to a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. All of our personnel engaging in insurance agency or brokering activities are required under relevant PRC regulations to have a qualification certificate issued by the CIRC. If these qualification requirements are strictly enforced, our business may be materially and adversely affected. All of our personnel who engage in insurance agency or brokering activities are required under relevant PRC regulations to obtain a qualification certificate from the CIRC in order to conduct insurance agency or brokering business. See “Item 4.B.—Business Overview—Regulation.” Under these regulations, insurance agencies and brokerages that retain unqualified personnel to engage in insurance sales activities may be fined up to RMB10,000. As of March 31, 2008, approximately 81.6% of our sales professionals had received a qualification certificate, compared with a national average qualification rate of approximately 76.5% for insurance intermediaries as reported by the CIRC. In addition, we understand that the CIRC may require, in the near future, that every individual agent carry credentials showing specified information when conducting agency business. If more local CIRC agencies were to strictly enforce these regulations in the future, and if a substantial number of our sales forces remain unqualified, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, we may be subject to fines and other administrative proceedings for the failure of our insurance professionals to obtain the necessary CIRC qualification certificate. Any such fines or administrative proceedings could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our businesses are highly regulated, and the administration, interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations currently applicable to us involve uncertainties, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry. The CIRC has extensive authority to supervise and regulate the insurance industry in China. In exercising its authority, the CIRC is given wide discretion, and the administration, interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations applicable to us involve uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. For example, it is not clear when the CIRC will start strictly enforcing the qualification requirements for sales professionals affiliated with professional insurance intermediaries like us. Although we have not had any material violations to date, we cannot assure you that our operations will always be consistent with the interpretation and enforcement of the laws and regulations by the CIRC from time to time. Further development of regulations in China may impose additional costs and restrictions on our activities. China’s insurance regulatory regime is undergoing significant changes. Some of these changes and the further development of regulations applicable to us may result in additional restrictions on our activities or more intensive competition in this industry. For example, under the consultation paper for administration of insurance agencies and brokerages promulgated by the CIRC, insurance agency or brokerage companies will likely be required to increase their guaranty deposit, which generally cannot be withdrawn without the CIRC’s approval, when they open any new branches. Such increase would reduce the amount of cash available for other business purposes. Under the same consultation paper, sole-proprietor insurance agencies will likely be allowed, which could lead to intensified competition among insurance agencies. Such development of regulations could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We conduct some of our business through two of our subsidiaries, which do not possess insurance agency or brokerage licenses. Two of our subsidiaries run our operating platform and maintain our customer database. In addition, they provide information about potential customers to insurance companies, which pay fees to these subsidiaries if these customers purchase insurance policies. Our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, has informed us that, in its opinion, the provision of customer information to and the collection of fees from insurance companies by our subsidiaries comply with existing PRC laws and regulations. We cannot assure you, however, that the relevant PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view contrary to ours or that of our PRC counsel. If the CIRC clarifies existing regulations on insurance agencies and brokerages or adopts new regulations that classify the provision of customer information to insurance companies as a form of insurance agency or brokerage services, our subsidiaries may be deemed to have engaged in insurance agency or brokerage services without proper license and, as a result, we may be subject to administrative penalties, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have identified several significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2008. 12 Table of Contents Prior to our initial public offering in October 2007, we had been a private company with limited accounting personnel with U.S. GAAP experience and other resources with which to adequately address our internal control over our financial closing and reporting process and other procedures. During the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements as of and for the three years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 in connection with our initial public offering, we identified a number of control deficiencies, which include significant deficiencies, in our internal control over financial reporting. Many of the deficiencies noted below were communicated to us from our independent registered public accounting firm as observations which stemmed from their audit. However, as noted in their report, their audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing the audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The significant deficiencies identified include: (1) a lack of formal internal controls over financial closing and reporting processes; (2) a lack of a formal risk assessment process; (3) a lack of accounting personnel with knowledge of U.S. GAAP and SEC financial reporting requirements; (4) a lack of regular preparation of U.S. GAAP consolidated management accounts; and (5) the absence of an audit committee. Similarly, during the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, with the assistance of our independent registered public accounting firm, we identified a number of control deficiencies, including a significant deficiency, in our internal control over financial reporting. This significant deficiency refers to a lack of formal internal control over financial closing and reporting process. It is important to note that we did not undertake a comprehensive assessment of our internal controls for purposes of identifying and reporting control deficiencies as we will be required to do under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Had we undertaken such an assessment, additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses may have been identified. In order to tackle the control deficiencies identified, we have: (1) developed formal procedures to prepare U.S. GAAP consolidated financial information on a monthly basis; and (2) established an audit committee, which will fully comply with applicable SEC and Nasdaq Marketplace Rules requirements before the expiration of the one-year transition period for newly public companies. In addition, we are in the process of, among other things, (1) preparing, with the help of an outside financial consulting firm, a comprehensive accounting policies and procedures manual covering U.S. GAAP, which our accounting personnel are required to become familiar with and follow; (2) hiring additional accounting personnel with external reporting experience, including knowledge of the SEC reporting requirements and U.S. GAAP, and additional investor relations personnel; and (3) establishing, with the help of an outside financial consulting firm, a risk assessment process that will comply with the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, a private sector organization dedicated to improving the quality of financial reporting. We plan to remediate these significant deficiencies in time to meet the deadline for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If, however, we fail to timely achieve and maintain effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Moreover, if we and our independent registered public accounting firm were not able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which would negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company, including our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. We may face legal action by the former employers or principals of entrepreneurial agents who join our distribution network. Competition for productive sales agents is intense within the Chinese insurance industry. When an entrepreneurial agent leaves his or her employer or principal to join our distribution network as our sales agent, we may face legal action by the former employer or principal of the entrepreneurial agent on the ground of unfair competition or breach of contract. As of the date of this annual report, there has been no such action filed or threatened against us. We cannot assure you that this will not happen in the future. Any such legal actions, 13 Table of Contents regardless of merit, could be expensive and time-consuming and could divert resources and management attention from the operation of our business. If we were found liable in such a legal action, we might be required to pay substantial damages to the former employer or principal of the entrepreneurial agent, and our business reputation might be harmed. Moreover, the filing of such a legal action may discourage potential entrepreneurial agents from leaving their employers or principals, thus reducing the number of entrepreneurial agents we can recruit and potentially harming our growth prospects. If we are required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, our financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected. When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is generally allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price that is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. As of December 31, 2007, goodwill represented RMB9.2 million (US$1.3 million), or 0.6% of our total shareholders’ equity of RMB1.6 billion (US$215.3 million). As of December 31, 2007, other intangible assets represented RMB4.3 million (US$0.6 million), or 0.3% of our total shareholders’ equity. Under current accounting standards, if we determine goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down the value of such assets and recognize corresponding impairment charges. As we implement our growth strategy through acquisitions, goodwill and intangible assets may comprise an increasingly larger percentage of our shareholders’ equity and any write-down related to such goodwill and intangible assets may adversely and materially affect our shareholders’ equity and financial results. Any significant failure in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and profitability. Our business is highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to timely process a large number of transactions across different markets and products at a time when transaction processes have become increasingly complex and the volume of such transactions is growing rapidly. The proper functioning of our financial control, accounting, customer database, customer service and other data processing systems, together with the communication systems between our various subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities and our main offices in Guangzhou, is critical to our business and to our ability to compete effectively. We cannot assure you that our business activities would not be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these primary information technology or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks or conversion errors due to system upgrading. In addition, a prolonged failure of our information technology system could damage our reputation and materially and adversely affect our future prospects and profitability. If we are unable to respond in a timely and cost-effective manner to rapid technological change in the insurance intermediary industry, there may be a resulting adverse effect on business and operating results. The insurance industry is increasingly influenced by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. For example, the insurance intermediary industry has increased use of the Internet to communicate benefits and related information to consumers and to facilitate information exchange and transactions. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to continue to anticipate technological changes and to offer additional product and service opportunities that meet evolving standards on a timely and cost-effective basis. There is a risk that we may not successfully identify new product and service opportunities or develop and introduce these opportunities in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, product and service opportunities that our competitors develop or introduce may render our products and services noncompetitive. As a result, we can give no assurances that technological changes that may affect our industry in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics, severe weather conditions and other catastrophes, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, another health epidemic, severe weather conditions or other catastrophes. In recent years, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. In January and February 2008, a series of severe winter storms afflicted extensive damages and significantly disrupted people’s lives in large portions of southern and central China. In May 2008, an earthquake measuring 8.0 on the Richter scale hit Sichuan Province in southwestern China, causing huge casualties and property damages. Because our business operations rely heavily on the sales efforts of individual sales agents and in-house sales representatives, any prolonged recurrence of avian flu or SARS, or the occurrence of other adverse public health developments, severe weather conditions such as the massive snow storms in January and February 2008 and other catastrophes such as the Sichuan earthquake may significantly disrupt our staffing and otherwise reduce the activity level of our sales force, thus causing a material and adverse effect on our business operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC laws and regulations place certain restrictions on foreign investment in and ownership of insurance intermediary companies. We conduct our operations in China principally through contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiaries, two PRC companies, Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment, the shareholders and the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment. Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment together, directly or indirectly, held equity interests ranging from 51% to 100% in 35 PRC insurance agencies, brokerages and claims adjusting companies as of May 31, 2008. These wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment hold the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our insurance intermediary business in China. Our contractual arrangements with Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment, their shareholders and their subsidiaries enable us to: • exercise effective control over Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries; • receive a substantial portion of the economic benefits of the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment in consideration for the services provided by our wholly-owned subsidiaries in China; and • have an exclusive option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in each of Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries when and to the extent permitted by PRC law. Because of these contractual arrangements, we are the primary beneficiary of Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries and have consolidated them into our consolidated financial statements. If we, our PRC subsidiaries, Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment or any of the existing and future subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the CIRC, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities; • restricting or prohibiting any related-party transactions among our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities; • imposing fines or other requirements with which we, our PRC subsidiaries or our consolidated affiliated entities may not be able to comply; 15 Table of Contents • requiring us, our PRC subsidiaries or our consolidated affiliated entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We rely on contractual arrangements with Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries and shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. We have relied and expect to continue to rely on contractual arrangements with our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment, and their subsidiaries and shareholders to operate our business in China. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4.C. Information on the Company—Organizational Structure—Our Corporate Structure and Contractual Arrangements” and “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment, Their Shareholders and Their Subsidiaries.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries as direct ownership. We have no direct or indirect equity interests in Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment or any of their subsidiaries. If we had direct ownership of Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. But under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment or any of their subsidiaries and shareholders fails to perform its or his obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and other resources to enforce such arrangements and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief and claiming damages, which may not be effective. For example, if the shareholders of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment were to refuse to transfer their equity interest in Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment to us or our designee when we exercise the call option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. To secure our loans to the three individual shareholders of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment, we entered into equity pledge agreements with them under which they pledged their equity interests in Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment to us. But we were unable to register the pledges because the relevant local administration for industry and commerce, which maintain public records of business entities, did not handle this kind of pledge at the time when our equity pledge agreements became effective. This could allow the shareholders to dishonor their pledges and re-pledge the equity interests to another person. Due to the lack of registration with the relevant administration for industry and commerce, we rely on these individuals to abide by the contracts laws of China and honor their contracts with us. According to the Property Rights Law, which became effective as of October 1, 2007, pledge rights for a pledge of equity are created at the time of the processing of the registration of the pledge by the relevant administration for industry and commerce. Although the PRC Property Rights Law does not have retrospective effect on pledges created prior to its effectiveness, we would need to register our existing pledges with the relevant administration for industry and commerce before any third party could register its pledge rights in order to protect our pledge rights against any third party to whom the shareholders might re-pledge their equity interests after the effectiveness of the Property Rights Law. Due to the lack of operational procedures under the Property Rights Law applicable to the registration of equity pledges, we cannot assure you that we will be able to get our equity pledge registration processed by the relevant administration for industry and commerce before any third party would be able to complete the registration. 16 Table of Contents All of our contractual arrangements with Meidiya Investment, Yihe Investment and their subsidiaries and shareholders are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our consolidated affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. The shareholders of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Three individual shareholders, Mr. Jianguo Cui, Mr. Zhenyu Wang and Mr. Qiuping Lai, hold 100% of the equity interests in each of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment. Mr. Wang was designated by CDH Inservice Limited, one of our principal shareholders. Mr. Lai is our co-founder and president. Mr. Cui was designated by Cathay Auto Services Limited, another of our principal shareholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between Mr. Wang’s or Mr. Cui’s dual role as a shareholder of our consolidated affiliated entities subject to various contractual arrangements with us and as a director or officer of entities controlling CDH Inservice Limited or Cathay Auto Services Limited. Similarly, Mr. Lai’s dual role as a shareholder of our consolidated affiliated entities and as our president may cause conflicts of interest. We do not have existing arrangements to address these potential conflicts of interest and cannot assure you that when conflicts arise, those individuals will act in the best interest of our company or that conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Contractual arrangements we have entered into with the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries and the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment do not represent an arm’s-length price and adjust the income of the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by the subsidiaries of Meidiya Investment and Yihe Investment, which could in turn increase their respective tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our consolidated affiliated entities for underpayment of taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our consolidated affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities or making additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We are an offshore holding company conducting our operations in China through PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities. In order to provide additional funding to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans we make to either of our directly-held PRC subsidiaries, Haidileji Enterprise or Yiqiman Management, both of which are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, cannot exceed statutory 17 Table of Contents limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable PRC law, the Chinese regulators must approve the amount of a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital, which represents shareholders’ equity investments over a defined period of time, and the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which represents the total of the company’s registered capital plus permitted loans. The registered capital/total investment ratio cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement and the excess of the total investment over the registered capital represents the maximum amount of borrowings that a foreign-invested enterprise is permitted to have under PRC law. Our directly-held PRC subsidiaries were allowed to incur a total of HK$184 million in foreign debts as of May 31, 2008. If we were to provide loans to our directly-held PRC subsidiaries in excess of the above amount, we would have to apply to the relevant government authorities for an increase in their permitted total investment amounts. The various applications could be time consuming and their outcomes would be uncertain. Concurrently with the loans, we might have to make capital contributions to these subsidiaries in order to maintain the statutory minimum registered capital/total investment ratio, and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own, as discussed below. Furthermore, even if we make loans to our directly-held PRC subsidiaries that do not exceed their current maximum amount of borrowings, we will have to register each loan with the SAFE or its local counterpart within 15 days after the signing of the relevant loan agreement. Subject to the conditions stipulated by the SAFE, the SAFE or its local counterpart will issue a registration certificate of foreign debts to us within 20 days after reviewing and accepting our application. In practice, it may take longer to complete such SAFE registration process. Any loans we make to any of our indirectly-held PRC subsidiaries (those PRC subsidiaries which we hold indirectly through Haidileji Enterprise and Yiqiman Management) or to any of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, all of which are treated as PRC domestic companies rather than foreign-invested enterprises under PRC law, are also subject to various PRC regulations and approvals. Under applicable PRC regulations, medium- and long-term international commercial loans to PRC domestic companies are subject to approval by the National Development and Reform Commission, and short-term international commercial loans to PRC domestic companies are subject to the balance control system effected by the SAFE. Due to the above restrictions, we are not likely to make loans to any of our indirectly-held PRC subsidiaries or to any of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities. Any capital contributions we make to our PRC subsidiaries, including directly-held and indirectly-held PRC subsidiaries, must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterparts and registered with the SAFE or its local counterparts. Such applications and registrations could be time consuming and their outcomes would be uncertain. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by us to our PRC subsidiaries or PRC consolidated affiliated entities or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years or so, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development 18 Table of Contents and guide the allocation of resources. While some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, the PRC government still owns a substantial portion of productive assets in China. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Since late 2003, the PRC government implemented a number of measures, such as raising interest rates and bank reserve requirements to place additional limitations on the ability of commercial banks to make loans, in order to contain the growth of specific segments of China’s economy that it believed to be overheating. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Our revenue and earnings from the distribution of life insurance products may be affected by fluctuations in interest rates and other general economic conditions in China. General economic and market factors in China, such as changes in interest rates and in the securities markets, can affect our commission and fee revenue from the sale of life insurance products. These factors can affect the volume of new sales and the extent to which our customers keep their policies in force year after year. Due to China’s recent fast growing economy, the Chinese government may take further measures, including further raising interest rates, in an effort to ensure sustainable economic growth. If interest rates were to further increase in the future, competing investment products offering higher returns could become more attractive to potential purchasers than the life insurance products we market and distribute. Increases in interest rates also may lead our customers to surrender and withdraw some life insurance policies purchased from us in order to seek other investments with higher returns. These surrenders and withdrawals will end the recurring fee revenue we would otherwise earn if the insurance polices were maintained. China’s stock market experienced substantial growth in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The perceived higher returns of investments in the stock market also may lead to reduced sales, and early terminations, of certain life insurance policies, thus adversely affecting our commission and fee revenue. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete with alternative products if these market forces make the life insurance products we sell unattractive to our target customers. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign- owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Although since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system, and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 19 Table of Contents You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management named in this annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade- related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. But approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law could increase the enterprise income tax rate applicable to some of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, which could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. Pursuant to the applicable PRC tax laws effective before January 1, 2008, foreign-invested enterprises were generally subject to state and local foreign enterprise income taxes at statutory rates of 30% and 3%, respectively, and domestic enterprises were subject to enterprise income tax, or EIT, at the statutory rate of 33%. Enterprises located in Shenzhen, a special economic zone, were subject to an EIT rate of 15%. Therefore, our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities located in Shenzhen were subject a favorable EIT rate of 15%. In addition, some of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities were entitled to exemptions from EIT in 2007 under applicable tax regulations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Taxation.” On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the PRC State Counsel issued the Implementation Rules of the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the Implementation Rules, which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Notice on Implementation of Enterprise Income Tax Transition Preferential Policy under the EIT Law, or the Transition Preferential Policy Circular, which also became effective on January 1, 2008. According to the EIT Law, as further clarified by the Implementation Rules, the Transition Preferential Policy Circular and other related regulations, foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. Enterprises that were established and enjoyed preferential tax treatments before March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy such preferential tax treatments in the following manners: (1) in the case of preferential tax rates, for a five-year transition period starting from January 1, 2008, during which the EIT rate of such enterprises will gradually increase to the uniform 25% EIT rate by January 1, 2012; or (2) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction with a specified term, until the expiration of such term. 20 Table of Contents According to the EIT Law and related regulations, the preferential tax rates enjoyed by some of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities incorporated in Shenzhen, a special economic zone, will gradually increase to the uniform 25% EIT rate during the five year transition period. An increase in the EIT rates for those entities pursuant to the EIT Law could result in an increase in our effective tax rate, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our global income or the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to PRC tax under the EIT Law, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the EIT at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The Implementation Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” If we are deemed a resident enterprise, we may be subject to the EIT at 25% on our global income, except that the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary will be exempt from the EIT. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% EIT on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Under the applicable PRC tax laws in effect before January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises in China, such as our subsidiaries Haidileji Enterprise and Yiqiman Management, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. We have also been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that pursuant to the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, however, dividends payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The British Virgin Islands, where our wholly-owned subsidiary and the 100% shareholder of Haidileji Enterprise and Yiqiman Management is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. Under the EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, if we are regarded as a resident enterprise, the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries will be exempt from the EIT. If, however, we are not regarded as a resident enterprise, we will be required to pay a 10% withholding tax for any dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiaries. As a result, the amount of fund available to us to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders and ADS holders, could be materially reduced. Under the EIT Law, dividends payable by us and gains on the disposition of our shares or ADSs could be subject to PRC taxation. We have been advised by our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, that because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the EIT Law and its Implementation Rules, it is uncertain whether any dividends to be distributed by us, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would be subject to any PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC corporate shareholders and ADS holders, or if gains on the disposition of our shares or ADSs are subject to the PRC EIT, your investment in our ADSs or ordinary shares may be materially and adversely affected. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends from our subsidiaries in China and service, license and other fees paid to our subsidiaries by some of our consolidated affiliated entities for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. Current PRC regulations permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside at least 10% of its 21 Table of Contents after-tax profits each year as reported in its PRC statutory financial statements, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital, and each of our PRC subsidiaries that are considered foreign-invested enterprises is required to further set aside a portion of its after-tax profits as reported in its PRC statutory financial statements to fund the employee welfare fund at the discretion of the board. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. As of December 31, 2007, the total retained earnings of our PRC subsidiaries available for dividend distributions were RMB141.4 million (US$19.4 million). Furthermore, if our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, commonly known in China as “SAFE Circular 75,” requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of raising capital backed by assets or equities of PRC companies. PRC residents that are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations on Foreign Exchange—Foreign Exchange Registration of Offshore Investment by PRC Residents.” Almost all of the beneficial owners of CAA Holdings Company Limited and Kingsford Resources Limited, two British Virgin Islands companies that indirectly held beneficial ownership interests in CISG Holdings, our wholly-owned subsidiary, before our restructuring in July 2007, are PRC residents. After our restructuring, the shareholders of CAA Holdings Company Limited and Kingsford Resources Limited became our indirect beneficial owners. We have requested our beneficial owners who were PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under SAFE Circular 75 and other related rules. We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our beneficial owners who are subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot assure you that all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements under SAFE Circular 75 or other related rules. The failure of these beneficial owners to timely amend their SAFE registrations pursuant to SAFE Circular 75 or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in SAFE Circular 75 may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise adversely affect our business. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the “Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange,” and on January 5, 2007, the SAFE further promulgated implementation rules for those measures (collectively, referred to as the “Individual Foreign Exchange Rules”). The Individual Foreign Exchange Rules became effective on February 1, 2007. According to these regulations, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by a company listed on an overseas stock market according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or any other qualified PRC agent, to register with the SAFE and to complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen 22 Table of Contents or be exchanged into Renminbi. Our PRC citizen employees who have been granted share options became subject to the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules upon the listing of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market. If we or our PRC citizen employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 16.9% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and June 19, 2008. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. But on the other hand, there is no assurance that the RMB would not depreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in RMB. We rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Any significant appreciation or depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in U.S. dollars. For example, a further appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB-denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into the RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into the RMB, as the RMB is our reporting currency. Conversely, a significant depreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar may significantly reduce the U.S. dollar equivalent of the earnings of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, and may adversely affect the price of our ADSs. The approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, may have been required in connection with our initial public offering in October 2007 under a PRC regulation adopted in August 2006. Based on advice of our PRC counsel, we did not seek CSRC’s approval for our initial public offering. Any requirement to obtain prior CSRC approval and a failure to obtain this approval, if required, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC and the SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation purports, among other things, to require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for overseas listing purposes and controlled by PRC companies or individuals to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published a notice on its official website specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by SPVs seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. At the time of our initial public offering in October 2007, while the application of the new regulations remained unclear, our PRC counsel, Commerce & Finance Law Offices, advised us that, based on their understanding of the PRC laws and regulations as well as the procedures announced on September 21, 2006: • the CSRC had jurisdiction over our offering; • the CSRC by then had not issued any definitive rule or interpretation concerning whether offerings like our initial public offering were subject to this new procedure; and 23 Table of Contents • despite the above, given that we had completed our inbound investment before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the M&A Rule, an application was not required under the M&A Rule to be submitted to the CSRC for its approval of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the Nasdaq Global Market, unless we were clearly required to do so by subsequent rules of the CSRC. Based on advice of our PRC counsel, we did not seek CSRC’s approval for our initial public offering. We, however, cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC, would reach the same conclusion as our PRC counsel. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies subsequently determine that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. The regulation discussed above could also make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. The regulation discussed in the preceding risk factor also established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. To date, we have conducted our acquisitions in China exclusively through our PRC consolidated affiliated entities. In the future, we may grow our business in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses rather than through our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. Complying with the requirements of the new regulations to complete such transactions could be time consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may prevent us from completing such transactions on a timely basis, or at all, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. A newly effective labor contract law in the PRC may adversely affect our business and results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. This new labor law has reinforced the protection for employees, who, under the existing PRC Labor Law, already have certain rights, such as the right to have written labor contracts, the right to enter into labor contracts with no fixed terms under specific circumstances, the right to receive overtime wages when working overtime, and the right to terminate or alter terms in the labor contracts. In addition, the Labor Contract Law has made some amendments to the existing PRC Labor Law and added some clauses that could increase cost of labor to employers. For example, under the Labor Contract Law, employers are required to base their decisions to dismiss employees on seniority, as opposed to merit, under certain circumstances. As the Labor Contract Law is new and its implementation rules have yet to be promulgated, there remains significant uncertainty as to its interpretation and application by the PRC government authorities. In the event we decide to significantly reduce our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to effect these changes cost-effectively or in the manner we desire, which could lead to a negative impact on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market price for our ADSs may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; 24 Table of Contents • conditions in the Chinese insurance industry; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other insurance intermediaries; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • potential litigation or administrative investigations; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ADSs or ordinary shares or sales of additional ADSs; and • general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares or ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of May 31, 2008, we had 912,497,726 ordinary shares outstanding, including 284,835,460 ordinary shares represented by 14,241,773 ADSs. In addition, options to purchase 45,985,931 ordinary shares of our company were outstanding as of May 31, 2008. All ADSs are freely transferable without additional registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. Since the 180-day lock-up period of our initial public offering has expired, the remaining ordinary shares not represented by ADSs are available for sale subject to the volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. Moreover, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to require us to register the sale of a total of 684,210,526 shares under the Securities Act. Sales of these shares in the form of ADSs in the public market under an effective registration statement could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the market price of our ADSs could decline. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our officers, directors and principal shareholders. As of May 31, 2008, our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders beneficially owned approximately 68.8% of our outstanding shares. These shareholders could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions, and they may not act in the best interests of other minority shareholders. This 25 Table of Contents concentration of our share ownership also may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of ADSs may instruct the depositary to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares represented by the ADSs. If no instructions are received by the depositary on or before a date established by the depositary, the depositary shall deem the holders to have instructed it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to exercise their voting rights. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands securities laws provide significantly less protection to investors as compared to U.S. laws. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and some or all of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities 26 Table of Contents laws of the United States or any state and it is uncertain whether such Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, because Cayman Islands law has no legislation specifically dedicated to the rights of investors in securities, and thus no statutorily defined private causes of action specific to investors in securities such as those found under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the United States, it provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could have a material adverse effect on the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Our articles of association contain provisions limiting the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to enter into change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our ordinary shares, in the form of ADS or otherwise. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on price appreciation of our ADSs for any return on your investment. Although we have declared cash dividends in the past, we currently intend to retain most, if not all, of our available funds and any future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our ADSs as a source for any future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiaries, our financial condition, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Accordingly, the return on 27 Table of Contents your investment in our ADSs will likely depend entirely upon any future price appreciation of our ADSs. There is no guarantee that our ADSs will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased the ADSs. You may not realize a return on your investment in our ADSs and you may even lose your entire investment in our ADSs. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences for U.S. Holders. We believe we are not a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2007. However, we must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC (after the close of each taxable year). Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2008 or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets generally will be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, which may fluctuate considerably. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder held an ADS or an ordinary share, a U.S. Holder directly or indirectly owning the ADSs or ordinary shares would be required to (i) pay an interest charge together with tax calculated at maximum ordinary income rates on “excess distributions,” which are defined to include gain on a sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares, or (ii) so long as the ADSs or ordinary shares are regularly traded on a qualified exchange, elect to recognize as ordinary income each year the excess in the fair market value, if any, of the ADSs or ordinary shares held (or deemed held) by the holder at the end of the taxable year over such holder’s adjusted basis in such ADSs or ordinary shares and, to the extent of prior inclusions of ordinary income, recognize ordinary loss for the decrease in value of such ADSs or ordinary shares. For the definition of “U.S. Holder” and a more detailed discussion of United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 