D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Extreme weather conditions and other natural or man-made disasters could damage our production, which would cause us to suffer losses of production and a material reduction in revenues. Our corn seeds, sheep products and seedlings are produced primarily on leased land and through a network of multiple village collectives and production companies in Shanxi and other provinces in China. Our production bases are invariably subject to the risks associated with agriculture, including extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters such as drought, flood, snowstorm, earthquake, pestilence, plant diseases and insect infestations. The quality, cost and volume of corn seeds, sheep products and seedlings produced could be materially adversely affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters, thereby harming our sales and profitability. For example, in November 2009, unexpected snow storms across northern China caused severe damage and disruptions to wide sections of agricultural industry in Shanxi area, where our operations concentrate. Man-made disasters, such as arson or other acts that may adversely affect our inventory in the winter storage season, may also damage our products or our production facilities. For instance, in March 2008, a fire broke out in one of our corn seeds warehouse, which led to a substantial loss of RMB8.2 million ($1.2 million) comprising primarily of corn seed inventory and property, plant and equipment. Furthermore, natural or man-made disasters may cause farmers to migrate from their farmland, which would decrease the number of end users of our products. We are particularly susceptible to disasters or other incidents in Shanxi province, where we have the greatest concentration of our operations. In the event of a widespread failure of a seed crop in Shanxi province, we would likely sustain substantial loss of revenues and suffer substantial operating losses. We do not have insurance to protect against such a risk and we are not aware of the availability of any such insurance in China. An outbreak of disease in livestock and/or food scares in China would materially and adversely affect our sheep business. Any major outbreak of disease in livestock in China, such as foot and mouth disease, is likely to result in significant disruptions to our business operations. A major epidemic within our farms, the onset of diseases and the preventive culling of our livestock could result in considerable losses to our flocks, which would materially and adversely affect our business and our profitability. Adverse publicity and concerns resulting from an outbreak of diseases in livestock may discourage consumers from purchasing mutton or related products. Such a reduction in demand would adversely impact our financial performance, regardless of whether our livestock has been directly affected by any disease. We primarily rely on arrangements with village collectives to produce our corn seed products. If we were unable to continue these arrangements or enter into new arrangements with other village collectives, our total land acreage devoted to corn seed production would decrease and our growth would be inhibited. In 2008 we had access to approximately 22,000 acres of farmland in seven provinces mainly through contractual arrangements with village collectives. During 2008, we used approximately 8,000 acres for corn seed production. Because we are legally prohibited from owning farmland, we typically lease the land owned by a village collective and enter into a seed production agreement with that village collective. These leases typically are 12 years in length, while the contracts to produce corn are typically one year in length, covering one growing season. These leases provide for a minimum condition to the land including electricity supply and irrigation. If leased land does not reach the required condition, we believe the lease can be forfeited without penalty. In the event that prices for other crops increase, these village collectives may decide to farm other crops in breach of our leases and seed production agreements with them, or following expiration of our leases, lease the land to our competitors or other parties. If the land policy changes so that we are unable to continue to lease the land, if a significant number of village collectives refuse to lease the land to us upon the expiration of their current leases, or if we are unable to find new village collectives willing to lease their land to us and produce corn seeds for us, our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Any of these disruptions could materially and adversely affect our supply of corn seeds and our revenues. Such disruptions could also damage distributor relationships and farmer loyalty if we cannot supply them with the quantities and varieties of seeds that they expect. Moreover, due to competition for land suitable for leasing, we may be unable to lease the same land or other land at commercially reasonable prices. In the event that we have to pay more to lease land or are unable to lease sufficient land, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents If our rights to lease land from village collectives were subject to a dispute, or if their legality or validity were challenged, our operations could be disrupted. PRC law provides for the registration of land ownership and land-use rights and for the issuance of certificates evidencing land ownership or the right to use land. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Land Use Rights.” However, the administrative system for registration of land ownership and land-use rights is not well-developed in rural areas where most of our corn seed production bases are located. As a result, we are generally not able to verify the ownership or land-use rights of the parties from whom we have leased land through the land registry system. Despite our efforts to obtain representations from the village collectives that they own the land, possess land-use rights or have the right to sub-contract the land-use right on behalf of the holder of such rights, there is nevertheless a risk that they have not legally and validly granted the right to use the land to us. In addition, under PRC law, if a village collective plans to enter into a lease with a party that does not belong to the collective, the contract must first be approved by at least two thirds of the members of the village assembly or representatives of the villagers. The lease must then be submitted to the township government for approval before it becomes effective. There is a risk that the village collectives with which we have entered into leases, and which have generally advised us that the required village assembly meetings were convened and the leases were approved by the township government, have in fact not undertaken all required actions prior to entering into leases with us. In 2007 and 2008, P3A entered into two contractual leases with village collectives with respect to two parcels of land of approximately 5,931 acres in aggregate for a term of 30 years. However, PRC contract law provides that the term of these contractual leases cannot exceed 20 years. As a result, unless the parties are able to renegotiate or otherwise agree to extend the remainder term of the lease, these contractual leases may be subject to termination after the initial 20-year term. There is a risk that the legality or validity of our leases will be subject to dispute or challenge in the future. If our leases become subject to a dispute or challenge, our operations on such land could be suspended. We could also lose our rights to use such land which would in turn reduce the amount of corn seeds we are able to sell, having a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a consolidated class action lawsuit alleging that we failed to disclose certain information in our initial public offering registration statement. If the plaintiffs in this consolidated class action lawsuit against us are successful, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity, as well as our reputation may be materially and adversely affected. As of February 3, 2009, a consolidated class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York was filed, alleging violations various sections of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, against us, our executive officers, our directors and other defendants. The lawsuit alleges that our initial public offering registration statement and prospectus failed to disclose certain alleged discussions between two executives relating to requests for additional compensation and a threatened resignation. We are vigorously defending this consolidated class action. On December 1, 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed the consolidated class action against the Company and the underwriters defendants, and the Court issued a judgment in favor of the Company and the underwriter defendants. Plaintiffs are attempting to challenge the court’s order dismissing the case against Agria and the underwriter defendants. Also, plaintiffs are pursuing these same claims against certain former and current officers and directors of Agria. We plan to move to dismiss these claims against the officers and directors based on grounds that caused the court to dismiss the case against Agria, as well as additional defenses. However, the outcome of this class action is uncertain. Also, the defense of this lawsuit may be costly, and we may incur substantial costs and expenses in doing so. It may also divert the attention of our management from the normal business operations of our company. If the plaintiffs in this consolidated class action lawsuit against us are successful, it may result in substantial monetary damages exceeding the amount of possible coverage under our directors and officers insurance policy, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity as well as our reputation. 6 Table of Contents Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. Our consolidated affiliated entity, P3A, commenced operations in 2000 and first achieved profitability in 2002. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in the highly fragmented agricultural industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • maintain our competitive position in China and compete in each of our business segments with Chinese and international companies, many of which have longer operating histories and greater financial resources than us; • continue to offer commercially successful corn seeds, sheep products, seedling and other products to attract and retain direct customers and ultimate users; • retain access to the farmland we currently use for production of our products and obtain access to additional farmland for expansion; • continue our existing arrangements with village collectives that grow our corn seed products and enter into new arrangements with additional village collectives; • maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; and • retain and motivate our management and skilled technical staff and recruit and integrate additional qualified personnel into our operations. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The strategic review recently announced may result in a refocusing and repositioning of the company’s business and operations and may be subject to execution risk. In September 2009, the company announced a strategic review of its business and operations. The purpose of this review is to reduce inherent risk in the business and to increase the value of shareholders’ equity. The strategic review may result in a refocusing and repositioning of our business and operations. One of our key strategies focuses on furthering our ongoing efforts in pursuing strategic acquisitions, investments and strategic partnerships both in China and internationally. In October 2009, we entered into agreements to invest in, and form a strategic partnership with, PGG Wrightson, New Zealand’s largest rural services business, which offers a wide range of products, services and solutions to farmers, growers and processors in New Zealand and internationally. In October 2009, we also entered into a strategic cooperation framework agreement with China National Academy of Agricultural Sciences, or CNAAS, providing for future cooperation across the spectrum of agricultural research. In addition, we entered into an investment agreement with CNAAS and its affiliates to invest RMB35.0 million into Beijing Zhongnong Seed Industry Co., Ltd., or Zhongnong, a company wholly owned by CNAAS and its affiliates. While actions will only be taken that are considered by management to be in the shareholders’ best interests, any repositioning is invariably subject to associated execution risk including issues relating to the integration of new operations and personnel, geographical coordination, retention of key management personnel, systems integration and the reconciliation of corporate cultures. The repositioning activities could cause the diversion of management’s attention or resources from our existing business or cause a temporary interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our business. We could also lose key personnel from the acquired companies. There may be unforeseen or hidden liabilities or we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to offset new costs of acquisitions, investments and strategic partnerships. The execution of international expansion of our operations exposes us to a number of additional risks including difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, increased costs associated with maintaining the ability to understand local trends, difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial, legal and regulatory requirements of the overseas locations in which we operate, failure to develop appropriate risk management and internal control structures tailored to overseas operations, inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights, unanticipated changes in economic conditions and regulatory requirements in overseas environment. These risks associated with strategic repositioning, future acquisitions, investments and strategic partnerships could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 7 Table of Contents Our senior management team has worked together for a short period of time, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate their effectiveness and ability to address future challenges to our business. Due to our recent restructuring and additions to our corporate management team, certain of our senior management have worked together at our company for only a short period of time. For example, we appointed Xie Tao to be our chief executive officer, Christopher Boddington to be our chief financial officer in September 2009 and John Layburn to be our chief strategy and compliance officer in October 2009. As a result, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management, on an individual or collective basis, and their ability to address future challenges to our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully execute our plan to recruit qualified candidates with substantial experience in the global agricultural industry to join our senior management team in the future. Even if we are able to recruit qualified senior management personnel, such new senior management personnel may not be able to work with our existing management to effectively execute our growth strategy and address future challenges to our business. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends significantly upon the continued services of our management, including the management of our primary operating entity, P3A. We rely on our management’s experience in product development, business operations, and sales and marketing, as well as on their relationships with distributors and relevant government authorities. If one or more of our key management personnel is unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. The loss of the services of our key management personnel, in the absence of suitable replacements, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each member of our management team has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. If disputes arise between our management and us in light of the uncertainties within the PRC legal system, there is a risk that some of the provisions of these agreements may not be enforced or enforceable in China, where our managers reside and hold most of their assets. In recent years, there has been significant turnover of our directors and senior management including those at P3A. Effective April 1, 2008, Mr. Zhixin Xue resigned from his former positions as our chief operating officer and director. Mr. Xue currently is the president and authorized legal representative of our primary operating entity, P3A. If Mr. Xue and/or other management personnel of P3A decide to resign from P3A in the future, the loss of their services in the absence of suitable replacements would have a material adverse effect on P3A’s operations, which in turn may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In such an event, we would also need to incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. We rely on contractual arrangements with P3A for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over our operating entity as direct ownership. Because PRC regulations currently restrict foreign ownership of corn seed companies directly in China, we are dependent on P3A, in which we have no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate P3A. The contractual arrangements with P3A may not be as effective in providing control over the entity as direct ownership. On occasions there have been disagreements between management of Agria and management of P3A. For example, there have been incidents where the P3A management did not provide full cooperation in responding to our requests in a timely manner. This included the provision of information to allow the timely completion of the investigations conducted at the direction of our audit committee and data to allow the completion of our annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. In the future, P3A may fail to take actions required for our business despite their contractual obligation to do so. P3A is able to transact business with parties not affiliated with us. If P3A fails to perform under its agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot be sure would be available. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of P3A would always act in our best interest. 8 Table of Contents Our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire new products. The majority of our products are upstream products ultimately used by farmers in China. The profitability of our business depends on sustained and recurring orders from our direct customers, which include distributors, breed improvement and reproductive stations, or BIRSs, and other intermediaries. Reorder rates are uncertain due to several factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include changing customer preferences, competitive price pressures, failure to develop new products to meet the evolving demands of farmers in China, the development of higher-quality products by our competitors and general economic conditions. If we are unable to develop or acquire additional products that meet the demands of farmers in China, or if our competitors develop products that are favored by farmers in China, our growth prospects may be materially and adversely affected and our revenues and profitability may decline. One or more of our distributors could engage in activities that are harmful to our brand and to our business. Outside of Shanxi province, our corn seed products are sold primarily through distributors, and those distributors are responsible for ensuring that our products have the appropriate licenses to be sold to farmers in those provinces. If those distributors do not obtain the appropriate licenses, their sales of our products in those provinces may be illegal, and we may be subject to government sanctions, including confiscation of illegal revenues and a fine of between two and three times the amount of such illegal revenues. Unlicensed sales in a province may also cause a delay for our other distributors in receiving a license from the authorities for that province, which could further adversely impact our sales in that province. In addition, distributors may sell our products under another brand that is licensed in a particular province if our product is not licensed there. If our products are sold under another brand, the purchasers will not be aware of our brand name, and we will be unable to cross-market other corn seed varieties or other products as effectively to these purchasers. Moreover, our ability to provide appropriate customer service to these purchasers will be negatively affected, and we may be unable to develop our local knowledge of the needs of these purchasers and their environment. Furthermore, if any of our distributors sell inferior corn seeds produced by other companies under our brand name, our brand and reputation could be harmed, which could make marketing of our branded corn seeds more difficult. Any plans to increase our production capacity and expand into new markets may not be successful, which could adversely affect our operating results. Implementation of our recently announced strategic review may result in decisions to further our expansion efforts with increased production of certain or all existing products and new corn seed, sheep and seedling products. This expansion has placed and will continue to place substantial demands on our managerial, operational, technological and other resources. If we fail to manage our product offerings, operations and distribution channels effectively and efficiently, we could suffer a material and adverse effect on our operations and our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities, either of which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As part of our development, we may expand the geographic areas in which our products are produced or sold. Expansion into new markets may present operating and marketing challenges that are different from those that we currently encounter in our existing markets. If we are unable to anticipate the changing demands that expanding operations will impose on our production systems and distribution channels, or if we fail to adapt our production systems and distribution channels to changing demands in a timely manner, we could experience a decrease in revenues and an increase in expenses and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors beyond our control and you may not be able to rely on our historical operating results as an indication of our future performance. We expect that our revenues in 2009 will decline compared to 2008 and there is a risk that we may have a net loss in 2009. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our quarterly and annual revenues and costs and expenses as a percentage of our revenues may be significantly different from our historical rates. Our operating results in future quarters may fall below expectations. Business disruption in key sales periods may have a particularly significant impact on our full year results. Any unexpected seasonal or other fluctuations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In 2008, our production of sheep semen and embryos was relocated to Youyu. The transfer caused significant disruption to this business and led to quality control problems. As a consequence, we do not expect there to be any significant sales of semen or embryos reported for 2009. In addition, revenues generated from our corn seed business have declined since 2007 and this trend has continued throughout 2009. Furthermore, the allegations made by a former employee of P3A caused significant disruptions to the business operations of P3A until the investigation in connection with these allegations was completed in December 2009. Therefore, we expect that our revenues in 2009 will decline compared to 2008 and there is a risk that we may have a net loss in 2009. 9 Table of Contents In addition, our future sustainability and level of profitability depend on our ability to secure sufficient orders from customers. An adverse change in market conditions may have material and adverse effects on our operating results if we cannot adjust our operating and marketing strategy to respond to such changes. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by reduced orders and profit margins in the event of a slowdown in market demand, an increase in business competition, a decrease in government subsidies to farmers, increased costs, or for other reasons. As such, there is a risk that we will not be able to continue to maintain a similar level of profitability and you may not be able to rely on our historical operating results as an indication of our future performance. A severe or prolonged downturn in the global or Chinese economy could materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tight credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The grim economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility of unprecedented levels. The current deterioration in economic conditions has had and could continue to have a negative impact on agricultural production and the rural economy in China, with global agricultural commodity demand and prices slumping. Lower commodity prices reduce farmers’ income and weaken their confidence for the future development of agricultural business. In turn, this may limit their abilities or lessen their willingness to use more expensive agricultural products including the ones we produce. There are still great uncertainties regarding the economic conditions and the demand for agricultural commodities. Continued turbulence in the international markets and economies and prolonged declines in agricultural commodity demand and prices in China may adversely affect our business, revenues and results of operations. We have limited insurance coverage on our assets in China and any uninsured loss or damage to our property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. Other than automobile insurance on certain vehicles and property and casualty insurance for some of our assets, we do not have insurance coverage on our other assets or inventories, nor do we have any business interruption, product liability or litigation insurance for our operations in China. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured loss or damage to property, business disruption or litigation may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. The Chinese agricultural market is highly competitive and our growth and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively. The agricultural market in China is highly fragmented, largely regional and highly competitive and we expect competition to increase and intensify within the sector. We face significant competition in our corn seed and sheep lines of business. Many of our competitors have greater financial, research and development and other resources than we have. Competition may also develop from consolidation of other market forces within the corn seed industry in China, or the privatization of corn seed producers that are currently operated by the local governments in China. According to the Opinion on Enhancement of Market Supervision regarding Seed Administration Reform issued by the General Office of the PRC State Council in May 2006, the local government agricultural administrative offices were required to separate their governmental administrative functions from seed production activities by the end of June 2007 and, therefore, there may be more privately-owned seed companies in the future. Our competitors may be better positioned to take advantage of industry consolidation and acquisition opportunities than we are. The reform and restructuring of state-owned equity in seed enterprises will likely lead to the reallocation of market share in the seed industry, and our competitors may increase their market share by participating in the restructuring of the state-owned seed companies. Such privatization would likely result in increased numbers of market participants with more efficient and commercially viable business models. In addition, the PRC government currently restricts foreign ownership of any domestic seed development and production business to no more than 50%. When and if such restrictions are lifted, multinational corporations engaged in the seed business may expand into the agricultural market in China. These companies have significantly greater financial, technological and other resources than we do and may become our major competitors in China. As competition intensifies, our margins may be compressed by more competitive pricing in the short term and may continue to be compressed in the long term and we may lose our market share and experience a reduction in our revenues and profit. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to estimate farmers’ future needs accurately and to match our production levels to meet the demand of our direct customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Due to the nature of the corn seed industry, we normally produce corn seeds according to our production plan before we sell them to distributors, which are our direct customers. Chinese farmers, the end users of our corn seeds, generally make purchasing decisions for our products based on market prices, economic and weather conditions as well as other factors that we and our distributors may not be able to anticipate accurately in advance. If we fail to accurately estimate the volume and types of products sought by farmers, we may produce more seeds that are not in demand by our distributors resulting in aged seeds. In the event we decide not to sell the aged seeds due to concerns about the quality of these seeds, this aged inventory could eventually be sold as corn to end users at much lower prices than those of corn seeds. Aged inventory could result in asset impairment, which would cause us to suffer a loss and incur an increase in our operating expenses. Conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may not be able to satisfy our distributors’ demand for corn seeds, and as a result damage our customer relations and end-user loyalty. Failure to estimate farmers’ future needs and to match our production to our direct customers’ demands may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to recover all of the advances paid to contracted village collectives or if a substantial number of our customers fail to pay for our products, our liquidity and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. We provide cash advances to the contracted village collectives which grow corn seeds for us in return for their purchase of fertilizer and other production materials. At the end of the growing season, after we take delivery of corn seeds, we credit the advances against the purchase prices payable to the village collectives. If the village collectives fail to produce or deliver the contracted amounts of corn seeds by the end of each growing season, we may not be able to recover all of the advances paid to the village collectives and our financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our sales contracts provide for upfront payments, which may be up to 100% of the purchase price, depending upon the payment history and creditworthiness of each customer. Typically, the balance is due within 240 days of delivery. As a result, some of our customers have 240 days of credit to pay after we deliver our corn seeds. In some instances, longer periods of credit have been and may continue to be granted to certain customers. These customers may not have ready access to additional sources of credit and therefore may have limited ability to withstand economic downturns. Lack of credit could prevent them from fulfilling their purchasing commitments with us, which in turn may cause liquidity issues for us and materially and adversely affect our financial condition. The resources we devote to research and development may not result in commercially viable or competitive products. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop new products. Research and development in the corn seed, sheep and seedling industries is generally expensive and prolonged. For example, seed development takes at least five years, as measured from the selection of the variety of seed for product development to the launch of a new corn seed product on the market. Due to the uncertainties and complexities associated with seed and biotechnological research, corn seed products under development may not survive the development process, may not ultimately be commercially viable, or may not pass government testing in the relevant provinces. As a further example, a new breed of sheep takes at least several generations to stabilize. We expect to apply for official variety recognition when our Primalights III hybrid sheep stabilizes and becomes eligible for application. We have not yet begun the application process for the title of official breeder sheep, and it may take several years to complete and may not be successful. In addition, we have significantly less financial resources than many of our international competitors. If the resources we devote to research and development do not result in products that survive the development stage, do not result in products that we can sell to our customers, or do not pass government testing, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims or other claims in the future which could result in substantial costs and divert our financial and management resources away from our business. We are subject to the risk that the products, technology and processes that we have developed in collaboration with institutes and universities will infringe upon patents, copyrights, trademarks or other third-party intellectual property rights. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property of others. If any such claims arise in the future, litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to allow us to retain our ability to offer our current and future products. Even if we prevail in contesting such claims, this could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources and attention. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights, incur additional costs to license or develop alternative products and be forced to pay fines and damages, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and legal action to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly and divert our management resources. We rely primarily on trademark, trade secret, copyright law and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection, and the actions we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Preventing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. There is a risk that the outcome of such litigation will not be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend other resources which could otherwise have been devoted to our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent that we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as those in the United States or other countries, which increases the risk that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our rights to some of the technologies used in our sheep business and developed through collaborations with Shanxi Agriculture University are limited in scope. If we are unable to continue to employ these technologies, our sheep business could suffer, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We cooperate with Shanxi Agriculture University in research and development for our sheep business. Under a number of our agreements with Shanxi Agriculture University, the university holds the rights to claim authorship on the technological achievements and the rights “to apply for awards” for the technologies developed. We have the exclusive right to use, further develop and commercialize these technologies developed by Shanxi Agriculture University under these agreements. If Shanxi Agriculture University were to dispute our exclusive rights to use, further develop and commercialize these technologies, we may lose our ability to continue to employ such technologies in our sheep business. If this were to occur, our sheep operations could suffer and our results of operations could be adversely affected. We may not possess all of the licenses required to operate our business, or may fail to maintain the licenses we currently hold. This could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are required to hold a variety of permits and licenses to conduct our corn seed, sheep and seedling businesses in China. We may not possess all of the permits and licenses required for each of our business segments. In addition, there may be circumstances under which the approvals, permits or licenses granted by the governmental agencies are subject to change without substantial advance notice, and it is possible that we could fail to obtain the approvals, permits or licenses that are required to expand our business as we intend. If we fail to obtain or to maintain such permits or licenses, or if renewals are granted with onerous conditions, we could be subject to fines and other penalties and be limited in the number or the quality of the products that we would be able to offer. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If the sale of our self-developed Primalights III hybrid sheep is considered by relevant government authorities to constitute the sale of breeder sheep, we may be ordered to stop selling Primalights III hybrid sheep and be subject to other penalties. We sell breeder sheep as well as our self-developed Primalights III hybrid sheep to our customers. We expect to apply for official variety recognition when our Primalights III hybrid sheep stabilizes and becomes eligible for application. According to the PRC Animal Husbandry Law, which became effective on July 1, 2006, any new variety of livestock is subject to examination and approval by the National Commission for Livestock and Poultry Genetic Resources and can be marketed and sold as a new variety only after the variety is approved and announced by the Ministry of Agriculture. Before obtaining such approval, we are not allowed to market or sell Primalights III hybrid sheep as breeder sheep, but only as ordinary hybrid sheep. According to informal inquiries with relevant PRC authorities, we do not need to acquire additional licenses if we only sell ordinary hybrid sheep. In the past, we sold our Primalights III hybrid sheep together with our breeder sheep under our form contract for breeder sheep, and farmers may use our Primalights III hybrid sheep to breed sheep. Under applicable PRC law, if any person sells any kind of livestock as a new variety before obtaining necessary approval, such person may be ordered to stop selling the livestock and pay a fine of up to three times the proceeds received from prior illegal sales, and all the proceeds received from prior illegal sales may be confiscated. If our sale of Primalights III hybrid sheep is considered by the relevant government authority to be a sale of breeder sheep, we may be ordered to stop selling them, be subject to confiscation of the livestock and any illegal gains, or be subject to additional fines, all of which may have a material and adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to product quality or liability claims relating to our products, which may cause us to incur litigation expenses and to devote significant management time to defending such claims and, if determined adversely to us, could require us to pay significant damage awards. In addition to the genetic traits and the quality of our products, the performance of our products depends on climate, geographic conditions, cultivation method, farmers’ degree of knowledge and other factors. At the same time, the viability of some farmland in China has deteriorated due to toxic and hazardous materials from farmers’ overuse of herbicides. Moreover, different production methods might result in inconsistent quality. These factors can result in sub-optimal production yields. Farmers generally attribute sub-optimal production yields to poor quality of agricultural raw materials. In addition, inconsistent quality of products may also result in the unwillingness of consumers to purchase products or pay for products already purchased that they consider to be sub-standard. Our ISO 9001/2000 International Quality Management System Certificate expired in July 2009 and has yet to be renewed. We may be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to our seed quality. The defense of these proceedings and claims could be both costly and time-consuming and significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management. An adverse determination in any such proceedings could subject us to significant liability. In addition, any such proceeding, even if ultimately determined in our favor, could damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing sales and market share. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products. Corn seed prices and sales volumes may decrease in any given year with a corresponding reduction in sales, margins and profitability. There have in the past and maybe in the future periods of instability during which time corn seed and other commodity prices and sales volumes may fluctuate greatly. Commodities can be affected by general economic conditions, weather, disease outbreaks and factors affecting demand, such as availability of financing, competition and trade restrictions. Our attempts to differentiate our products from those of other corn seed producers have not prevented the corn seed market from having the characteristics of a commodity market. As a result, the price that we are able to demand for our corn seed is dependent on the size of the supply of our corn seed and the corn seed of other producers. Therefore, the potential exists for fluctuation in supply, and consequently in price, in our own markets, even in the absence of significant external events that might cause volatility. As a result, the amount of revenue that we receive in any given year is subject to change. As production levels are determined prior to the time that the volume and the market price for orders is known, we may have too much or too little product available, which may materially and adversely affect our revenues, margins and profitability. 13 Table of Contents The advent of the genetic modification of corn seeds in China could adversely affect our business, causing us to lose business opportunities, market share and revenues. We currently rely upon traditional methods of creating corn seed hybrids to develop new products. There has been a worldwide increase in the development and application of genetically modified agricultural products to increase the quality and quantity of crop yields. Advances in technology are increasingly allowing the use of gene modification to produce seeds that are superior to those that are produced by traditional methods. Currently, the production and commercial sale of genetically modified corn seed have not obtained public acceptance and are not encouraged by government authorities in China. However, if government attitude changes to encourage genetically modified corn seeds, demand may develop for these products, and we expect that we will need to produce genetically modified products to meet customer demands. Should the Chinese government change its attitude with respect to genetically modified corn seeds, there is a risk that our current steps to respond to the potential competitive threat posed by genetically modified agricultural products, including our research and development activities with respect to genetically modified corn seeds, may not allow us to compete successfully. In particular, our competitors may have more advanced technology or may market genetically modified seed more successfully than us. Our future growth prospects may be affected if we are unable to obtain additional capital to finance future acquisitions. We may require additional cash resources in order to make acquisitions. In general, the cost of an acquisition is unknown until the opportunity is analyzed, due diligence has been completed and negotiations are underway. If the cost of any such acquisition that our management deems appropriate exceeds our cash resources, we will need to seek additional cash resources, and may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or borrow under credit facilities. The sale or issuance of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We may not be able to obtain financing in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may also not be able to secure or repay debt incurred to fund acquisitions, especially if the acquisition does not result in the benefits we anticipated. As a result, our operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to properly manage our storage system may result in damage to products in storage, thereby resulting in operating losses. Corn seed and seedling storage entails significant risks associated with the storage environment, including moisture, temperature and humidity levels, deviations in which may result in damage to corn seeds and seedlings in stock. Our semen and embryo products for our sheep business are generally stored in a frozen state and any problems affecting the temperatures or conditions under which they are stored could damage these products. Any significant damage to the products we have in storage could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our consolidated affiliated entity, P3A, was the subject of various allegations of financial improprieties. Although (i) no material inaccuracies with respect of the sheep transaction as recorded by P3A were found; and (ii) no evidence of P3A falsifying its financials among the contracts and underlying documents covering the period reviewed was found by an independent international counsel, we may be subject to additional allegations in the future. These allegations may be costly to address and even if unsubstantiated, may result in negative publicity or further disruption to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions as well as reputation. In December 2008, a former employee made various allegations against P3A. These allegations related to the number of sheep purchased by P3A in August 2008 and the price that P3A paid for these sheep, and the authenticity of certain of P3A’s sales contracts, bank statements and tax invoices. Our audit committee retained an independent international counsel, DLA Piper UK LLP, or DLA Piper, to conduct investigations of these allegations. DLA Piper completed its investigation in December 2009 and in its report concluded that (i) it did not find any material inaccuracies with respect of the sheep transaction as reported by P3A; and (ii) it did not find any evidence of P3A falsifying its financials among the contracts and underlying documents covering the period which they reviewed, from July 1, 2006 to June 30, 2007. 14 Table of Contents These allegations caused significant disruption to the ongoing business operations of P3A during the investigation, and we may be subject to additional allegations in the future. Steps taken to address such allegations can be costly and may also divert the attention of our management from the normal business operations of our company. In addition, such allegations, even if unsubstantiated, may result in negative publicity or further disruption to our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial conditions as well as our reputation. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material and adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must report the effectiveness of our company’s internal control over financial reporting. We started to be subject to these requirements from the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2008. Prior to our initial public offering in November 2007, we were a young, private company with limited accounting and other resources with which to adequately address our internal controls and procedures. As a result, during the audit of our financial statements for the three years ended December 31, 2006, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a number of control deficiencies, including two material weaknesses, as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Audit Standard No. 5. The material weaknesses identified by us and our independent auditors were our inadequate personnel, processes and documentation to address reporting requirements under U.S. GAAP, and our inadequate independent oversight over financial reporting due to the lack of an independent audit committee. During the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a number of control deficiencies, including a material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness observed was inadequate personnel, processes and documentation to address reporting requirements under U.S. GAAP. As of December 31, 2008, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified a number of control deficiencies, including a material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting. The material weakness observed was that controls designed to ensure that significant transactions, accounting estimates, and other adjustments were properly reviewed, analyzed and monitored by sufficient and appropriate accounting staff on a timely basis did not operate effectively. If we fail to implement measures to remediate these material weaknesses and other control deficiencies in time to meet the deadline imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we will not be able to conclude, on an ongoing basis, that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in our inability to conclude we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which may cause the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to expend significant costs and expend significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements. If we grant additional employee share options, restricted shares or other share incentives in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. We have adopted a 2007 share incentive plan and granted share options under the plan. We are required to account for share-based compensations in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensations to employees based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. If we grant additional options, restricted shares or other equity incentives in the future, we could incur significant compensation charges equal to the fair value of the additional options, restricted shares and other equity incentives, and our net income could be adversely affected. 15 Table of Contents We do not maintain insurance on our corn seed storage facilities; therefore, if a fire or other disaster damages some or all of our stored corn seeds, we will not receive any compensation. We store a portion of our corn seed products from February to September. We do not maintain insurance on our storage facilities. A fire or other natural or man-made disaster may damage our stored products, particularly if such event occurs shortly before the peak season for the sales of corn seeds products, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Doing Business in China If the Chinese government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our Chinese businesses do not comply with Chinese governmental restrictions on foreign investment in the seed industry, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Most of our operations are conducted through our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entity and its shareholders in China. PRC regulations currently restrict foreign ownership of corn seed companies. For a description of these regulations, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Seed Law, Animal Husbandry Law and Other Relevant Regulations—Seed Law and Other Relevant Regulations.” We have entered into contractual arrangements with the affiliated entity, P3A, and its shareholders, all PRC citizens, which enable us to, among other things, exercise effective control over the affiliated entity. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—B. Related Party Transactions—Contractual Arrangements with P3A and Its Shareholders.” If we or either of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated entities or our corporate structure is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in an entity in which direct foreign ownership is restricted), the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and relevant agencies of the Ministry of Commerce, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking P3A’s business and operating licenses; • confiscating relevant income and imposing fines and other penalties; • prohibiting or restricting P3A’s operations in China; • requiring us or P3A to restructure P3A’s ownership structure or operations; • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our businesses and operations in China; or • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our subsidiaries or P3A may not be able to comply. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. 16 Table of Contents The shareholders of P3A may breach our agreements with them or may have potential conflicts of interest with us, and we may not be able to enter further agreements to derive economic benefits from P3A, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The shareholders of P3A, our consolidated affiliated entity in the PRC, may breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements with us that allow us to effectively control P3A, and receive economic benefits from its operations. There is a risk that they will not always act in the best interests of our company. We do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We rely on these individuals to abide by the contract laws of China and to honor their contracts with us in order for us to effectively control P3A and to receive the economic benefits of P3A. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes that may arise between us and the shareholders of P3A or if the shareholders breach our agreements with them, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which may result in disruption to our business. There is also substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. Any limitation of PRC law and regulations on the ability of our subsidiaries and affiliated entity to distribute dividends or make other payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Current PRC regulations permit our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, each of our subsidiaries and our affiliated entity in China is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund a statutory reserve until such reserve reaches 50% of its registered capital, and to further set aside a portion of its after-tax profits to fund the employee welfare fund at the discretion of the shareholders’ meeting or the board. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Furthermore, if our subsidiaries and our affiliated entity in China incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the loan agreements governing that debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make payments to us according to the contractual agreements. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements we currently have in place in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to distribute dividends or other payments to us could materially limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Pursuant to the new PRC enterprise income tax law which became effective on January 1, 2008, the 2008 EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered as a resident enterprise and will be subject to a PRC income tax on its global income. According to the implementing rules of the 2008 EIT Law, or the Implementing Rules, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated a circular setting out the criteria for determining whether “de facto management bodies” are located in China for overseas incorporated, domestically controlled enterprises. However, as this circular only applies to enterprises incorporated under the laws of foreign countries or regions that are controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises, it remains unclear how the tax authorities will determine the location of “de facto management bodies” for overseas incorporated enterprises that are not controlled by PRC enterprises or groups of PRC enterprises like us. Accordingly, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to a PRC income tax on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, such PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Under the applicable PRC tax laws in effect before January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises are exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the 2008 EIT Law and the Implementing Rules which are effective as of January 1, 2008, however, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax if the foreign investors are considered as non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. China Victory International Holdings Limited, or China Victory, our wholly owned subsidiary and the direct holder of 100% equity interest in Aero-Biotech Science & Technology Co., Ltd., or Agria China, and Agria Brother Biotech (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., or Agria Brother, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and 17 Table of Contents Prevention of Fiscal Evasion in August 2006, or the Mainland and Hong Kong Taxation Arrangement, and the Notice in Relation to the Dispatch of Schedule of Agreed Tax Rates on Dividends issued by the State Administration of Taxation (State Taxation Circular No. 112 (2008)), dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 5% (if the foreign investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). Under the 2008 EIT Law and the Implementing Rules, if China Victory is regarded as a resident enterprise, the dividends payable to China Victory from Agria China and Agria Brother will be exempt from the PRC income tax. If China Victory is regarded as a non-resident enterprise and therefore is subject to a 5% withholding tax for any dividends payable to it from Agria China, the amount of funds available to us to meet our cash requirements, including the payment of dividends to our shareholders, could be reduced correspondingly. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the 2008 EIT Law and the Implementation Rules, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, then any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders or any gains realized by non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders from transfer of our shares or ADSs may be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the 2008 EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on the above dividends or gains, the investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We benefit from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, changes to, disputes over or challenges against these incentives or protectionism arising from the incentives could adversely affect our operating results. Prior to January 1, 2008, companies established in China were generally subject to a state and local enterprise income tax, or the EIT, at statutory rates of 30% and 3%, respectively. However, the Chinese government has provided various incentives to high-technology companies and agricultural companies in order to encourage the development of the high-technology and agricultural industries. Such incentives include reduced tax rates, subsidies and other measures. For example, P3A, our consolidated affiliated entity, qualified as a “key technology enterprise” pursuant to the Shanxi Province 1311 Agricultural High Technology Project implemented by Shanxi province in 2002. As a result, P3A has been exempted from the EIT since 2002 based on the approval of the local tax authority in Shanxi. Agria China, our wholly-owned subsidiary established in March 2007 in China, was initially granted a full exemption from the EIT for the fiscal years 2007 to 2009. As a result of the EIT law and its Implementation Rules, Agria China’s EIT exemption ended on December 31, 2007, and Agria China is subject to EIT at a rate of 25% from 2008 onwards. Under the 2008 EIT Law, the Implementing Rules, the State Council circulars on implementation of enterprise tax transition preferential policy and relevant rules, foreign-invested enterprises, such as our subsidiary, Agria China, and domestic companies would be subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to entities that are classified as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” or conduct business in encouraged sectors, whether foreign-invested enterprises or domestic companies. Furthermore, enterprises that were established and already enjoyed preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term will continue to enjoy them until the expiration of such term. There is still uncertainty with respect to their interpretation and implementation. If the PRC central government challenges the tax exemption enjoyed by P3A as a result of the Shanxi province 1311 Agricultural High Technology Project, our effective tax rate will likely increase up to a maximum of 25% on our worldwide income, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The PRC government has in recent years reduced taxes and increased subsidies and other support across the agricultural industry. For instance, the government subsidizes farmers for their seed purchases, and has increased spending on rural infrastructure. Sales of agricultural products from producers to intermediaries or to farmers are exempt from PRC value-added tax. Discontinuance of preferential treatments granted by the Chinese government to the seed industry could adversely affect our earnings. In addition, subsidy policies may have an adverse effect on our ability to market our products, especially in provinces other than Shanxi where we are planning to increase our sales. Farmers can buy corn seeds designated as “high-quality” at subsidized prices, but the designation of seeds as “high-quality” is at the discretion of the local government, companies owned by the local government and local private seed companies. It is possible that out of local protectionism, this policy could result in preferential treatment for local seed producers, with locally produced seeds being designated as “high-quality”, while ours are not designated as such. If such preferential treatment were to occur, the price for our seeds to farmers in those provinces would be higher than the subsidized local seeds, and our sales in those provinces could suffer, which could have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries and affiliated entity in China. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China, and in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including Circular No. 75 issued in November 2005 and the implementation rules issued in May 2007, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents. The SAFE regulations require registration of direct or indirect investments made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings as required under these regulations and under any implementing rules or approval practices that may be established under these regulations. However, due to the lack of implementing rules and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. There is a risk that not all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registration or approvals required by these regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders and beneficial owners to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulation—Foreign Exchange.” In addition, under the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, issued on January 5, 2007 by SAFE, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or any other qualified PRC agent, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company may be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchanged into Renminbi. Our PRC citizen employees who have been granted share options, or PRC option holders, are subject to the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules. If we or our PRC citizen employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. 19 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB are to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high but never exceeding it. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. For example, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in Renminbi, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in US dollars. Substantially all of our sales contracts were denominated in Renminbi and substantially all of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi. We rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries and our affiliated entity in China. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of dividend distribution or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue which will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited so that we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currency. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on your investment. 20 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks or acts of terrorism in China, which could result in reduced demand for our products or disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by an outbreak of H1N1 influenza A, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or another epidemic, or an act of terrorism. From time to time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Recently, human cases of H1N1 influenza A virus infection have been identified internationally. Any prolonged recurrence of H1N1 influenza A, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. In addition, terrorist attacks, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, geopolitical uncertainty and international conflicts, could have an adverse effect on our business operations. Any of these events could adversely affect China’s economy and cause an immediate and prolonged drop in consumer demand. An immediate and prolonged drop in consumer demand could severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, a significant portion of our revenues are derived from government customers, which may reduce their spending on our products during a crisis, which could adversely affect our results of operations and could probably be difficult to recover once the threat has subsided. The PRC Property Rights Law may affect the perfection of the pledge in our pledge agreement with P3A and its shareholders. Under the equity pledge agreement among P3A, the shareholders of P3A and Agria China, the shareholders of P3A have pledged all of their equity interests in P3A to Agria China. This equity pledge agreement was duly created by recording the pledge on P3A’s register of shareholders in accordance with the PRC Security Law and the PRC Contract Law. The purpose of such pledge is to guarantee P3A’s performance of its obligations under the exclusive technology development, technical support and service agreement, exclusive consultancy service agreement and proprietary technology license agreement with Agria China. However, according to the PRC Property Rights Law, which became effective as of October 1, 2007, a pledge is not effective without being registered with the relevant local Administration for Industry and Commerce. It remains unclear whether P3A was required to register the pledge created before October 1, 2007 under the PRC Property Rights Law. P3A has attempted to register the pledge, but the application for registration has not been processed due to the lack of registration procedures. P3A will continue to make efforts to register such pledge when the local Administration for Industry and Commerce implements registration procedures. If P3A is unable to do so, the pledge itself may be deemed ineffective under the PRC Property Rights Law. If P3A breaches its obligations under the agreements with Agria China, there is a risk that Agria China may not be able to successfully enforce the pledge and would need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce its contractual rights. Risks Related to the ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been and continues to be highly volatile. The trading price of our ADSs may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • announcement of securities law class action lawsuits against us and our directors and officers; • delay in our periodic earnings announcements; • announcements of technological or competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other corn seed, sheep products or seedling companies; • additions or departures of our executive officers and key personnel; 21 Table of Contents • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the US dollar and RMB; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of June 30, 2009, we had 125,160,000 ordinary shares outstanding, of which 48,830,000 ordinary shares were represented by 24,415,000 ADSs. All ADSs are freely transferable without additional registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. Since the 180-day lock-up period of our initial public offering has expired, the remaining ordinary shares not represented by ADSs are available for sale subject to the volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee to vote the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote and it is possible that you will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that (i) we do not wish such proxy given, (ii) substantial opposition exists, or (iii) such matter materially and adversely affects the rights of shareholders. Under our deposit agreement, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given or any of the other situations specified under the deposit agreement takes place. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may be more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute that property and you will not receive that distribution. 22 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders of our company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders of our company than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. We are controlled by a small group of existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders. As of September 30, 2009, our principal shareholder, Mr. Guanglin Lai, beneficially owned 38.8% of our total outstanding shares. In addition, as of September 30, 2009, certain key management of P3A beneficially owned an aggregate of 22.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares, with Messrs Zhixin Xue, Mingshe Zhang and Lv Yan holding 17.4%, 2.3% and 2.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares, respectively. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. In addition, because these shareholders could collectively control our company, they would be able to take actions that may not be in the best interests of other shareholders. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We do not have any existing arrangements with any of our shareholders to address potential conflicts of interests between these shareholders and our company, and none of our shareholders other than the beneficial owners of our shareholders in their capacity as our officers pursuant to the terms of their service agreements have entered into non-compete agreements. There is a risk that our existing shareholders may not always act in the best interests of our company. Our memorandum and articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs. We have included certain provisions in our memorandum and articles of association that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, and deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transactions. Our articles include the following provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company: • Our board of directors has the authority to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series, including the designation of the series; the number of shares of the series; the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights; and the rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. • Our board of directors may issue a series of shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued preferred shares. Accordingly, the issuance of preferred shares may adversely affect the rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. Issuance of preference shares may dilute the voting power of holders of ordinary shares. • Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, our board of directors may issue additional ordinary shares or rights to acquire ordinary shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued shares. 23 Table of Contents You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. We may have been a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the price of our ADSs and the value and composition of our assets, we believe that we were likely a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our subsidiaries were also PFICs for such year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test generally will be determined based on the market price of our ADSs or ordinary shares, our PFIC status will depend in large part on the market price of the ADSs or ordinary shares, which may fluctuate significantly. If we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2008, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to U.S. Holders (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) of our ADSs or ordinary shares with respect to any “excess distribution” received from us and any gain from a sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary shares. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 