Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, and an investment in our common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which we believe are material to our business and could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition and the trading value of our common stock. Other risks factors, not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect our business. In assessing the following risk factors, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The current economic recession in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Idaho and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Idaho and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. 43 A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations: § loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; § demand for our products and services may decline; § collateral for loans made may decline further in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans; and § the amount of our low-cost or non-interest bearing deposits may decrease. Negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with the general economic downturn, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn. In addition, as a consequence of the recession in the United States, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. As a result of these economic crises, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced increases in delinquent and nonperforming loans, including construction and land loans, multifamily loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many loans have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies have been very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. In this regard, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the "U.S. Treasury") has announced that more rigorous regulatory capital and liquidity standards for banks should be established by December 31, 2010 and implemented by December 31, 2012, but no specific measures have yet been published. Continued negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Overall, during the past year, the general business environment has had a negative effect on our business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Until there is a sustained improvement in conditions, we expect our business, financial condition and results of operations to be negatively affected. Legislation and measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies to help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market may not be successful. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to the Treasury Department to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury Department has the authority to, among other things, invest up to $700 billion through a capital purchase program, pursuant to which may provide access to capital to financial institutions. This program may be extended to other nonfinancial companies. We did not apply for government assistance through the 44 Capital Purchase Program under the U.S. Treasury Department’s TARP. We believe our high capital level and liquid balance sheet provides us flexibility in today's environment to execute our growth plans without TARP capital. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate to a target of 0.00% to 0.25%; action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, in early 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced its Financial Stability Plan to ameliorate the current credit crisis, and President Obama signed into law the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (the "ARRA"). The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the U.S. banking system, improve the flow of credit and foster an economic recovery. The regulatory and legislative initiatives described above, however, may not have their desired effects. If market volatility resumes or economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and negatively affected. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a significant growth strategy for our business, including FDIC-assisted acquisitions of failed financial institutions. Our growth initiatives are based upon recruiting experienced personnel to lead such initiatives, and, accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently have banking relationships with other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. To the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market area, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We cannot assure that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our profitability. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business, profitability and prospects could be harmed. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market area and our ability to manage our growth. In this regard, future growth opportunities may not be available or we might not successfully manage our growth. We are highly dependent on key individuals and a number of the members of executive and senior management have been with the Company for less than three years. Consistent with our policy of focusing on select growth initiatives we are highly dependent on the continued services of a limited number of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of services of any of these individuals may have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. We believe we have in place qualified individuals and have provided for an orderly transition. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Moreover, our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our human resources and will require the recruitment of additional middle management personnel. The competition to hire experienced banking professionals is also intense. If we are unable to attract qualified banking professionals, our expansion plans could be delayed or curtailed and our business, financial condition, and profitability may be adversely affected. 45 Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., the Wall Street Journal Prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business strategy centers on the continued transition to commercial banking activities in order to expand our net interest margin. Consistent with this strategy, we are working to further reduce the percentage of our lower-yielding assets such as residential loans and mortgage-backed securities and to increase the percentage of our assets consisting of construction and land development, commercial and multi-family real estate and commercial business loans that have higher risk-adjusted returns. Our increasing focus on these types of lending will continue to increase our risk profile relative to traditional thrift institutions as we continue to implement our business strategy for the following reasons: Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our increasing percentage of commercial real estate and commercial business loans. At September 30, 2009, our loan portfolio included $254.0 million of commercial and multifamily real estate loans and commercial business loans, or approximately 47.0% of our total loan portfolio. We have been increasing, and intend to continue to increase, our origination of these types of loans in fiscal 2010. The credit risk related to these types of loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operations and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Some of this risk is mitigated by the fact that approximately $86.2 million, or 33.9%, of $254.0 million of commercial and multifamily real estate loans and commercial business loans are loans that we acquired in the Community First Bank transaction and are covered by our loss-sharing agreement with the FDIC for that transaction. Several of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for one-to-four family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, these loans generally carry 46 larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one-to-four family loans. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of increased levels of residential and commercial delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer's borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, we have experienced increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued increases in delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate values, which cause our loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We make land purchase, lot development and real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties and, to a lesser extent, commercial and multi-family real estate projects. We will originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans include single-family tract construction loans for the construction of entry level residential homes. Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the project, which is uncertain prior to the project's completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regards to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. This risk has been compounded by the current slowdown in both the residential and the commercial real estate markets, which has negatively affected real estate values and the ability of our borrowers to liquidate properties or obtain adequate refinancing. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and we may incur a loss. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. We make our commercial loans primarily based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In addition, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Because our loans are concentrated to borrowers in our market area, a downturn in the local economy or a decline in local real estate values could cause increases in nonperforming loans, which could hurt our profits. The majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the Boise, Idaho and Bend, Oregon, metropolitan areas and surrounding rural markets. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We do not have the ability of a larger institution to spread 47 the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse economic conditions in our markets could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, profitability and financial condition. Moreover, we may not benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our market areas continue to decline, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on Home Federal Bank. The United States, including our primary banking markets, have experienced weakening economic conditions and declines in housing prices and real estate values in general. Our loan portfolio contains significant amounts of loans secured by residential and commercial real estate. We have experienced increases in non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provisions for credit losses as a result of continuing deterioration of the housing markets, increasing financial stress on consumers and weakening economic conditions. We expect continued economic weakness for most of calendar years 2009 and 2010. This environment could lead to increased levels of non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provision for credit losses compared to previous periods. Substantially all of our loans secured by real property and concentrated in southwestern Idaho and central Oregon. A continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. As a result, we have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital levels could be reduced. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. The weakened housing market may result in a decline in fair value of REO. In recent months we have foreclosed on certain real estate development and commercial real estate loans and have taken possession of several residential subdivision properties as well as single family residential properties. REO is initially recorded at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. Because of the weak housing market and declining property values, we may incur losses to write-down REO to new fair values or losses from the final sale of properties. Moreover, our ability to sell REO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to 48 accept large discounts from market value to quickly liquidate properties. Write-downs on REO or an inability to sell REO properties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. Our federal thrift charter may be eliminated under the federal government’s Financial Regulatory Reform Plan. Congress has proposed legislation that would significantly change the regulation of banks and thrifts, including the consolidation of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which currently charters and supervises nationally chartered banks, and the Office of Thrift Supervision, which supervises federally chartered thrift and thrift holding companies, such as Home Federal Bancorp, Inc., and Home Federal Bank. In addition, under the legislative proposal, the thrift charter, under which Home Federal Bank is organized, would be eliminated. If the proposal is finalized, Home Federal Bank and Home Federal Bancorp, Inc. may be subject to a new charter. There is no assurance as to how this new charter, or the supervision by the new regulatory agency, will affect our operations going forward. The failure of the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Seattle or the national Federal Home Loan Bank System may have a material negative impact on our earnings and liquidity. The FHLB of Seattle announced that it did not meet minimum regulatory capital requirements for the quarter ended September 30, 2009 due to the deterioration in the market value of their mortgage-backed securities portfolio. As a result, the FHLB of Seattle cannot pay a dividend on their common stock and it cannot repurchase or redeem common stock. While the FHLB of Seattle has announced it does not anticipate that additional capital is immediately necessary, nor does it believe that its capital level is inadequate to support realized losses in the future, the FHLB of Seattle could require its members, including Home Federal Bank, to contribute additional capital in order to return the FHLB of Seattle to compliance with capital guidelines. At September 30, 2009, we held $10.3 million of common stock in the FHLB of Seattle. Should the FHLB of Seattle fail, we anticipate that our investment in the FHLB’s common stock would be “other than temporarily” impaired and may have no value. At September 30, 2009, we held $31.2 million of cash on deposit with the FHLB of Seattle. At that date, all other cash and cash equivalents were held on deposit at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, in a correspondent bank account or on hand in branch office vaults. At September 30, 2009, we maintained a line of credit with the FHLB of Seattle equal to 40% of total assets to the extent Home Federal Bank provides qualifying collateral and holds sufficient FHLB stock. At September 30, 2009, we were in compliance with collateral requirements and $134.4 million of the line of credit was available for additional borrowings. We are highly dependent on the FHLB of Seattle to provide the primary source of wholesale funding for immediate liquidity and borrowing needs. The failure of the FHLB of Seattle or the FHLB system in general, may materially impair our ability to meet our growth plans or to meet short and long term liquidity demands. 49 Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle (“FHLB”), the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco ("FRB") and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, we may not be able to replace such funds in the future if, among other things, our financial condition, the financial condition of the FHLB or FRB, or market conditions change. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities or the terms of which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general - such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Idaho or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable, or are not available on reasonable terms, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits at the Bank. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Additionally, the Deposit Insurance Fund has been depleted due to the rise in bank failures in 2009. While the FDIC has access to a line of credit with the U.S. Treasury Department and has recently assessed a prepayment requirement of 2010, 2011 and 2012 annual deposit insurance premiums on financial institutions, customers may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at the Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. Increases in deposit insurance premiums and special FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. Beginning in late 2008, the economic environment caused higher levels of bank failures, which dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and led to a significant reduction in the Deposit Insurance Fund. As a result, the FDIC has significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance. The base assessment rate was increased by seven basis points (seven cents for every $100 of deposits) for the first quarter of 2009. Effective April 1, 2009, initial base assessment rates were changed to range from 12 basis points to 45 basis points across all risk categories with possible adjustments to these rates based on certain debt-related components. These increases in the base assessment rate have increased our deposit insurance costs and negatively impacted our earnings. In addition, in May 2009, the FDIC imposed a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to five basis points on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, subject to a maximum equal to 10 basis points times the institution’s assessment base. In addition, the FDIC may impose additional emergency special assessments, of up to five basis points per quarter on each institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. The latest date possible for imposing any such additional special assessment is December 31, 2009, with collection on March 30, 2010. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will hurt our earnings. Additionally, as a potential alternative to special assessments, in September 2009, the FDIC proposed a rule that would require financial institutions to prepay its estimated quarterly risk-based assessment for the fourth quarter of 50 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. This proposal would not immediately impact our earnings as the payment would be expensed over time. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations, including changes that may restrict our ability to foreclose on single-family home loans and offer overdraft protection. We are subject to extensive examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by the OTS and the FDIC. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, and not holders of our common stock. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, restrict mergers and acquisitions, investments, access to capital, the location of banking offices, and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. New legislation proposed by Congress may give bankruptcy courts the power to reduce the increasing number of home foreclosures by giving bankruptcy judges the authority to restructure mortgages and reduce a borrower’s payments. Property owners would be allowed to keep their property while working out their debts. Other similar bills placing additional temporary moratoriums on foreclosure sales or otherwise modifying foreclosure procedures to the benefit of borrowers and the detriment of lenders may be enacted by either Congress or the States of Idaho and Oregon in the future. These laws may further restrict our collection efforts on one-to-four single-family loans. Additional legislation proposed or under consideration in Congress would give current debit and credit card holders the chance to opt out of an overdraft protection program and limit overdraft fees which could result in additional operational costs and a reduction in our non-interest income. Further, our regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. In this regard, banking regulators are considering additional regulations governing compensation which may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. On June 17, 2009, the Obama Administration published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan that is intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal Bank. Under the reform plan, the federal thrift charter and the OTS would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution must register as a bank holding company. Draft legislation would require Home Federal Bank to become a national bank or adopt a state charter and require Home Federal Bancorp to register as a bank holding company. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change as significant differences currently exist between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the OTS does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. The reform plan also proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency that would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the legislation needed to implement the President’s reform plan has not been introduced, and because the final legislation may differ significantly from the legislation proposed by the Administration, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. 51 Our litigation related costs might continue to increase. The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of the Bank’s business. In the current economic environment the Bank’s involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims in order to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We intend to undertake a conversion to a new core processing application in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. We will also convert the banking platform assumed in the Acquisition. After the conversions, all banking offices will operate on the same platform. Core processing conversions entail substantial operational risk and if we fail to successfully convert customer accounts, our liquidity may be significantly impaired due to customers closing their deposit accounts and our earnings may be negatively impacted. 52 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Act”) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Failure to comply with the terms of the loss share agreement with the FDIC may result in significant losses. On August 7, 2009, Home Federal Bank entered into a definitive purchase and assumption agreement with the FDIC, pursuant to which Home Federal assumed certain deposits, excluding nearly all brokered deposits, and certain assets of Community First Bank, a commercial bank headquartered in Prineville, Oregon. Home Federal also entered into a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC. Under the loss sharing agreement, Home Federal will share in the losses on assets covered under the purchase and assumption agreement. The FDIC has agreed to reimburse Home Federal for 80% of losses up to $34.0 million, and 95% of losses that exceed that amount. The purchase and assumption agreement and the loss sharing agreement have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and REO under the requirements of the loss share agreement may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 