Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business, and an investment in our common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which we believe are material to our business and could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition, capital levels, liquidity and the trading value of our common stock. Other risks factors, not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect our business. In assessing the following risk factors, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.The current weak economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Idaho and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the markets in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Idaho and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; •we may increase our allowance for loan losses;•demand for our products and services may decline resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets; •collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;•the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit, and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued relatively high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy.A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.43Table of ContentsFurthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: •actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; •changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; •failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; •speculation in the press or investment community; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •actions by institutional shareholders; •fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; •general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry both domestically and internationally; •proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; •anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or •domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility in recent years. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, or other factors. Market volatility during the past couple of years is unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., The Wall Street Journal prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan and deposit volume and mix, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability.We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively as our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our 44Table of Contentsbalance sheet or projected operating results. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the last four years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve) to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability.Our increasing emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial business loans may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy includes the expansion of commercial real estate and commercial business lending. We have been increasing, and intend to continue to increase, our origination of commercial and multifamily real estate loans and commercial business loans in the future. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. The credit risk related to these types of loans also is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Several of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us and commercial real estate loans tend to have larger balances than one-to-four family residential loans. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. This risk is exacerbated in the current economic environment. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, these loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one-to-four family loans. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings.A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of increased levels of residential and commercial loan delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, we have experienced increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Declines in real estate values, which cause our loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated upon purchase a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may 45Table of Contentsbe unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.Our loan portfolio has a concentration of loans secured by commercial real estate, which is primarily secured by nonowner-occupied investment properties. Continued deterioration in the local economy may result in additional losses on loans. Generally, deterioration in the performance and collectability of a loan secured by owner-occupied real estate can be better monitored than a nonowner-occupied real estate loan as we typically do not have the ability to assess the financial performance of tenants who are leasing from borrowers on investment property loans. We regularly review financial information of borrowers on owner-occupied loans whereas we can typically review only vacancy and rent rolls of tenants of borrowers on nonowner-occupied loans.Deterioration in the general economy may further increase vacancies in office, retail and industrial real estate, which may result in decreased cash flow to our borrowers and further declines in value on foreclosed commercial real estate causing additional provisions for loan and REO losses.Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We make land purchase, lot development and real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties and, to a lesser extent, commercial and multifamily real estate projects. We will originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans include single-family tract construction loans for the construction of entry level residential homes.Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the finished project, which is uncertain prior to the project’s completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regard to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. This risk has been compounded by the current slowdown in both the residential and the commercial real estate markets, which has negatively affected real estate values and the ability of our borrowers to liquidate properties or obtain adequate refinancing. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and we may incur a loss. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At December 31, 2013, we had $35.3 million or 8.5% of total loans in commercial business loans. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In addition, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower.If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital levels could be reduced.Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms, or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;46Table of Contents•the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;•the duration of the loan;•the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and•changes in economic and industry conditions.We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is an appropriate reserve to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance is funded by provisions for loan losses charged to expense. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management’s expectations of future events;•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral; and•an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors.The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Slower sales, excess inventory and declining prices in the housing market have been the primary causes of the recent increases in delinquencies and foreclosure in our loan portfolio. While stabilizing in recent years, if weakening conditions in the housing and real estate markets return, we expect we will experience increases in delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. If charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The fair value of REO may decline. REO is initially recorded at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. Because of the weak housing market and decline in property values over the last several years, we may incur losses to write-down REO to new fair values or losses from the final sale of properties. Moreover, our ability to sell REO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value to quickly liquidate properties. Write-downs on REO or an inability to sell REO properties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Idaho Department of Finance, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. These banking regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) has significantly changed, and will continue to change, the bank regulatory structure and has affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other provisions, the Dodd-Frank Act created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of various federal banking agencies, and will establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.47Table of ContentsThe Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and noninterest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013.The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded.The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as Home Federal Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators.While some of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been implemented, many still have not. Additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain.In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal. In July 2013, the FDIC issued interim final new capital rules applicable to smaller banking organizations. Community banking organizations including the Company and the Bank will begin transitioning to the new rules on January 1, 2015. These rules are discussed in Item 1 above under "Regulation and Supervision of Home Federal Bank".In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.The application of more stringent capital requirements for Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business and the inability to obtain adequate funding may negatively affect growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB of Seattle, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (FRB) and other borrowings to fund our operations. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally 48Table of Contentsimpact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Idaho or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If that happens, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Our litigation-related costs might continue to increase.The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of its business. In the current economic environment the Bank’s involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims in order to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims.We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability.We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles.In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition.We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.49Table of ContentsThe operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased our risks related to cybersecurity.We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to our banking customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting our operations.While we have not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits.In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Act) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Our earnings may be negatively affected by a failure to comply with the terms of the shared-loss agreements with the FDIC or if our losses are less than expected.In connection with the CFB and LibertyBank Acquisitions, Home Federal Bank entered in to shared-loss agreements with the FDIC that significantly reduces the Bank's credit loss exposure. Losses on covered assets in the CFB Acquisition are indemnified by the FDIC at the rate of 80% on the first $34 million of losses and at a rate of 95% after that. Losses on covered assets in the LibertyBank Acquisition are indemnified by the FDIC at a rate of 80%. The loss sharing agreements will expire five years after the acquisition date for non-single family covered assets and ten years after the acquisitions date for single-family covered assets. After the expiration of the loss sharing agreements, the Company will not be indemnified for losses and related expenses on covered assets. At December 31, 2013, nearly all of the assets remaining in the covered asset portfolios qualify as non-single family covered assets. Therefore, most of our covered assets will no longer be indemnified after September 2014 for assets purchased in the CFB Acquisition and September 2015 for assets purchased in the LibertyBank Acquisition.The purchase and assumption agreements and the shared-loss agreements for the CFB and LibertyBank Acquisitions have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and REO under the requirements of the loss sharing agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. In addition, in September 2020, 50Table of Contentsapproximately ten years following the LibertyBank Acquisition date, the Bank is required to make a payment to the FDIC in the event that losses on covered assets under the loss sharing agreements have been less than the intrinsic loss estimate, which was determined by the FDIC prior to the LibertyBank Acquisition, based on a formula in the agreement. Under the formula, the Bank has estimated the minimum level of losses to avoid a true-up provision payment to the FDIC to be $46.7 million. The maximum amount of the true-up provision is $4.7 million, if there are no losses in the covered loan portfolio. At December 31, 2013, the Bank accrued $778,000 as an estimate of the true-up provision obligation, however, there can be no assurance that additional accruals will not be required in future periods that will negatively affect earnings. Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements.The pendency of the proposed merger with Cascade and the related diversion of our management’s attention from the operation of our business may adversely affect our business and results of operations. As described in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 23, 2013, and the registration statement on Form S-4, filed by Cascade with the SEC on December 16, 2013, as amended, we entered into the Cascade Agreement which, subject to shareholder approval and various other conditions, would result in our being acquired by Cascade. Our management and Board of Directors have devoted and will continue to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the proposed merger. In addition, in connection with the proposed merger, we have incurred and will continue to incur expenses, which could prove to be significant. Our business and our operating and financial results may be materially adversely affected by the diversion of management’s time and attention and the expenses incurred in connection with the proposed merger. If the proposed merger is not completed and we are not otherwise acquired, we may consider other strategic alternatives which are subject to risks and uncertainties. If the proposed merger is not completed, our Board of Directors will review and consider various alternatives available to us, including, among others, continuing as a public company with no material changes to our business or capital structure. These alternative transactions or initiatives may involve various additional risks to our business, including, among others, distraction of our management team and associated expenses as described above in connection with the proposed merger. In addition, our ability to consummate any alternative transaction or execute any alternative initiative could be subject to various uncertainties. All of the foregoing could adversely affect our operations or financial conditionThe failure to complete the merger with Cascade could negatively impact our business. There is no assurance that the merger with Cascade or any other transaction will occur or that the conditions to the Merger will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Further, there is no assurance that any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the Cascade Agreement will not occur. If the proposed merger or a similar transaction is not completed, the share price of our common stock may drop to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. In addition, under circumstances defined in the Cascade Agreement, we may be required to pay a termination fee of up to approximately $8.0 million. Certain costs associated with the merger are already incurred or may be payable even if the merger is not completed. Further, a failed transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. There can be no assurance that our business, these relationships or our financial condition will not be negatively impacted, as compared to the condition prior to the announcement of the merger, if the merger is not consummated.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.51Table of Contents