Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting the Company’s operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. A. H. Belo may be unable to respond to changing consumer preferences resulting from evolving industry trends and technology changes. Print circulation and readership of A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry overall, are being affected by the preferences of some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news in new formats and from sources other than traditional newspapers, and by the proliferation of these new media formats and sources. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as the Internet, various mobile devices, cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized newspaper readership. Over the past decade, the Internet, cable television programming services, and other emerging media distribution platforms have captured increasing market share, while the aggregate print circulation of major newspapers has declined due to the factors cited above as well as conscious decisions by newspaper publishers to reduce distribution to core geographies. A. H. Belo’s businesses operate in highly competitive media markets, and the Company’s ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively the Company competes with existing and new competition. Our businesses operate in highly competitive media markets. A. H. Belo’s newspapers compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other newspapers as well as with the Internet, magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, telecom products and services, radio, direct mail, yellow pages and other media. Some of A. H. Belo’s current and potential competitors have greater financial and other resources. A. H. Belo’s newspaper publications generate significant percentages of their advertising revenues from a finite number of sources. In recent years, Web sites dedicated to automotive, employment, real estate, and general classified advertising have become significant competitors of A. H. Belo’s newspapers and Web sites. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, technological, industry, and other changes specific to these advertising sources could reduce advertising revenues and adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. A. H. Belo’s revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional, and national newspapers (including free daily newspapers), magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, telecom products and services, radio, direct mail, yellow pages, the Internet, and other media. The National Do Not Call Registry has affected the way newspapers solicit home-delivery circulation, particularly for larger newspapers that historically have relied on telemarketing. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics, and circulation. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality, and customer service. A. H. Belo’s local and regional competitors include newspapers that are typically related to each market, but the Company has many competitors for advertising revenues that are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources. Circulation revenues and the Company’s ability to achieve price increases for the Company’s print products may be affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in the Company’s various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among certain demographics. A. H. Belo may incur higher costs competing for advertising dollars and paid circulation, and if the Company is not able to compete effectively for advertising dollars and paid circulation, revenues may decline and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. A. H. Belo Corporation 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 9 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the Company’s new consumer-driven revenue initiatives will be successful. During the first quarter of 2011, the Company announced new consumer-driven revenue initiatives, including a relaunch of The Dallas Morning News’ Web site and new digital applications, including a new application for the iPhone and its first application for the iPad. These initiatives include certain increased subscription pricing and new pricing structures. There can be no assurance that these new initiatives will be embraced by existing subscribers or allow the Company to attract new subscribers. The economic slowdown recently experienced in the United States, and national and worldwide financial instability, may continue to adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Advertisers generally reduce spending during economic downturns. The recent economic slowdown in the United States has adversely affected the Company’s advertising revenues and may continue to adversely affect its business by reducing demand for local and national advertising. Advertising revenues as a percent of A. H. Belo’s total revenue have steadily declined from approximately 76.0 percent in 2008 to 63.7 percent in 2010. Advertising demand is a factor in determining advertising rates. A prolonged recession and diminished demand could result in a reduction in the advertising rate structure, leading to lower revenues and operating margins. Additionally, the Company’s advertising customers could face liquidity constraints. If such events were to occur, the Company could encounter difficulties in realizing its receivables from advertisers, which could increase the Company’s exposure to loss if these receivables were determined to be uncollectible. Decreases in circulation may adversely affect A. H. Belo’s advertising and circulation revenues. A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry as a whole, are experiencing challenges to maintain and grow print circulation. A significant decline in circulation could affect the rate and volume of advertising revenues. To maintain the Company’s circulation base, A. H. Belo may incur additional costs, and may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. The Company may incur increased spending on marketing designed to retain its existing subscriber base and continue or create niche publications targeted at specific market groups. The Company may also incur increased marketing costs to drive traffic to its proprietary Web sites. Access to credit may be adversely affected based on instability in worldwide credit markets and an uncertain outlook for the newspaper industry. On December 3, 2009, the Company entered into the second amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement as so amended, the “Credit Agreement”) reducing its available credit from $50 million to $25 million to reduce the costs of unused available credit. The Credit Agreement expires in September 2012. The Company’s ability to access funds under its Credit Agreement, if needed, depends on the Company’s compliance with certain financial covenants in the Credit Agreement. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets, as have been experienced since mid-2008, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to draw on the credit facility under its Credit Agreement. Further, additional uncertainty in the newspaper industry may limit the Company’s ability to renew or obtain credit from other sources when the facility expires or may reduce the amount of credit available or may increase the costs associated with obtaining credit. Any disruption could require the Company to take measures to conserve cash until the markets and industry stabilizes or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for its business needs can be arranged. The Company’s potential inability to successfully execute cost control measures could result in total operating costs that are greater than expected. The Company has taken steps to lower its costs by reducing staff and employee benefits and implementing general cost-control measures and expects to continue cost control efforts. If revenues continue to decline, the ability to continue cost reduction efforts to match revenue declines could be limited. If the Company does not achieve expected savings, or if operating costs increase due to the creation and development of new products or otherwise, total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. The Company could experience inflationary pressures as suppliers increase prices after experiencing a period of price suppression and the Company may be unable to initiate price increases or additional cost reductions to offset these inflationary pressures. The Company’s inability to offset inflationary pressures could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. PAGE 10 A. H. Belo Corporation 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint, the cost of which for the last three years has represented between approximately 8.1 percent and 11.7 percent of A. H. Belo’s revenues. The price of newsprint historically has been volatile. Consolidation in the North American newsprint industry has reduced the number of suppliers and has led to paper mill closures and conversions to other grades of paper, which in turn has decreased overall newsprint capacity and increased the likelihood of higher prices. A. H. Belo currently purchases most of its newsprint through a purchasing consortium. Significant increases in newsprint costs or the Company’s inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. Recently enacted health care mandates may require the Company to evaluate the scope of health care benefits offered to its workforce and the method in which health care benefits are delivered. These mandates may increase the Company’s cost and the employees’ costs. Higher health care costs may reduce the Company’s earnings, resulting in (i) an inability to reinvest sufficient capital in its operations, (ii) an inability to pay dividends, and (iii) an increase in the cost of capital, all of which could have a negative effect on the Company’s stock price. The Company believes that appropriate steps have been and are being taken to implement cost control efforts. However, if costs are not managed properly, such steps may affect the quality of A. H. Belo’s products, its ability to generate future revenue, and compliance with the financial covenants as outlined in the Credit Agreement. In addition, reductions in staff and employee benefits could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain key employees. A. H. Belo depends on key personnel and may not be able to operate and grow its business effectively if A. H. Belo loses the services of any of its senior executive officers or key operational employees or is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. A. H. Belo relies on the efforts of its senior executive officers and other management. The success of the Company’s business depends heavily on its ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and A. H. Belo may not be able to retain its key personnel. The Company has not entered into employment agreements with key management personnel, other than a retention and relocation agreement with Mr. John C. McKeon, President and General Manager of The Dallas Morning News, Inc., and does not have “key person” insurance for any of its senior executive officers or other key personnel. To mitigate this risk, A. H. Belo has a change in control severance plan covering key management personnel that is triggered under certain conditions if a change in control occurs. A. H. Belo’s business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes by its employees. Currently, one of A. H. Belo’s primary newspapers, The Providence Journal, is party to collective bargaining agreements with unions representing approximately 330 of its employees. These agreements expire in 2011, 2012 and 2013, unless extended. A. H. Belo cannot predict the results of negotiation of future collective bargaining agreements, whether future collective bargaining agreements will be negotiated without interruptions in the Company’s business, or what the possible effect of future collective bargaining agreements will be on its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company also cannot assume that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company has limited experience managing a pension plan. In October 2010, the Company agreed with Belo to split The G. B. Dealey Retirement Pension Plan (“GBD Pension Plan”) which is sponsored by Belo, effective January 1, 2011. Pension assets and obligations for current and former employees of A. H. Belo participating in this plan were transferred to two newly-formed A. H. Belo pension plans (“New Pension Plans”). The New Pension Plans are sponsored solely by the Company and provide participants the same benefits as they had under the GBD Pension Plan. The Company has limited experience managing such plans as these, and, in its new fiduciary role, the Company must develop appropriate investment strategies and establish the appropriate level of internal controls, which risk excess administration costs and lower returns on the plans’ assets. Such events could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A. H. Belo Corporation 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K PAGE 11 Table of Contents The New Pension Plans are currently underfunded and the Company expects it will be required to make significant future contributions to the New Pension Plans. Additionally, if the actuarial assumptions for the New Pension Plans differ significantly from actual results, significant changes could occur to funding requirements. As of December 31, 2010, the estimated unfunded pension liability that transferred to the New Pension Plans, which are frozen to new participants, was approximately $132,346. Unanticipated volatility in equity markets or changes in interest rates, longevity or legislation, such as the Pension Protection Act, in the U.S., could result in significant increases or decreases in the liability recorded and the timing of funding requirements. Adverse results from pending or new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, A. H. Belo and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation, governmental proceedings, and investigations. Current matters include those described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require A. H. Belo to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could affect adversely the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers have significant combined voting power and significant influence over its management and affairs. A. H. Belo directors and executive officers hold approximately 54 percent of the voting power of The Company’s outstanding voting stock as of February 28, 2011. A. H. Belo’s Series A common stock has one vote per share and Series B common stock has 10 votes per share. Generally, except for certain extraordinary corporate transactions, all matters to be voted on by A. H. Belo’s shareholders must be approved by a majority of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Certain extraordinary corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s property and assets, or a dissolution, the alteration, amendment, or repeal of A. H. Belo’s bylaws by shareholders, and certain amendments to A. H. Belo’s certificate of incorporation, require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Accordingly, A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers will have significant influence over the Company’s management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. This ownership may limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, A. H. Belo may take actions that some shareholders do not view as beneficial. Certain members of management, directors, and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. A. H. Belo and Belo Corp. have several directors in common. Robert W. Decherd serves as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Belo and as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of A. H. Belo. Mr. Decherd and Dealey D. Herndon, his sister, serve as directors of A. H. Belo and Belo. James M. Moroney III, Executive Vice President of A. H. Belo and the Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of The Dallas Morning News, is their second cousin. Mr. Moroney also serves as a director of Belo. In addition, the management and directors of both companies own common stock in both companies. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when A. H. Belo’s and Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for A. H. Belo and Belo. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between A. H. Belo and Belo regarding the terms of the agreements governing the Distribution and the relationship between, as well as other agreements between, A. H. Belo and Belo. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. PAGE 12 A. H. Belo Corporation 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K Table of Contents 