Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, and an investment in our common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which we believe are material to our business and could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition and the trading value of our common stock. Other risks factors, not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect our business. In assessing the following risk factors, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our business is subject to general economic risks that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition and changes in economic conditions. Particularly, a further economic slowdown in the Treasure Valley, could hurt our business. Our business is directly and indirectly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2008. Further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular within our primary market area in the Treasure Valley real estate markets, could result in the following consequences, among others, any of which could hurt our business materially: § loan delinquencies may increase; § problem assets and foreclosures may increase; § demand for our products and services may decline; and § collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing a customer’s borrowing power and reducing the value of assets and collateral securing our loans. 41 Recent negative developments in the financial industry and credit markets may continue to adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Negative developments beginning in the latter half of 2007 in the sub-prime mortgage market and the securitization markets for such loans, together with the general economic downturn, have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets and a general economic downturn, which have continued in 2008. Many lending institutions, including us, have experienced increases in delinquent and nonperforming loans, including construction and land loans, multifamily loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many construction and land, commercial, multifamily, other commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Bank and holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. These conditions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of the foregoing factors, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of formal enforcement orders. Continued negative developments in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments could restrict our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the Company’s industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of real estate related loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. These write-downs, initially of asset-backed securities but spreading to other securities and loans, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has already adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market developments may affect consumer confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates, which may impact our charge-offs and provision for credit losses. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. Recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies to help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market may not be successful. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to the Treasury Department to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: § Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances; § Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection; § Temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and § Authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. 42 Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury Department has the authority to, among other things, invest up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) through a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it proposes to provide access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier 1 capital. This program may be extended to other nonfinancial companies. We did not apply for government assistance through the Capital Purchase Program under the U.S. Treasury Department’s TARP. We believe our high capital level and liquid balance sheet provides us flexibility in today's environment to execute our growth plans without TARP capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate, including a 100 basis point decrease in October 2008; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive the acquisition of financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions are automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and will continue to be covered as long as they do not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. We elected to participate in the transaction account guarantee program, but we will not participate in the debt guarantee component. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a significant growth strategy for our business. Our growth initiatives are based upon recruiting experienced personnel to lead such initiatives, and, accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to execute our growth strategy. In addition, achieving our growth targets requires us to attract customers that currently have banking relationships with other financial institutions in our market, thereby increasing our share of the market. To the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market area, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We cannot assure that we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our profitability. If we do not manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to achieve our business plan, and our business, profitability and prospects could be harmed. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors, including our ability to attract and retain experienced bankers, the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from 43 other financial institutions in our market area and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, growth opportunities may not be available or we might not successfully manage our growth. The building of market share through our branching strategy could cause our expenses to increase faster than revenues. We intend to continue to build market share through our branching strategy. We are planning two new branches that we intend to open within the next 12 months in addition to a recently constructed office that opened in October 2008. There are costs involved in opening branches and new branches generally require a period of time to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs, especially in areas in which we do not have an established presence. Accordingly, any new branch may negatively impact our earnings for some period of time until the branch reaches certain economies of scale. Our expenses could be further increased if we encounter delays in the opening of any of our new branches. Finally, there is a risk that our new branches will not be successful even after they have been established. We are highly dependent on key individuals and a number of the members of executive and senior management have been with the Company for less than three years. Consistent with our policy of focusing on select growth initiatives we are highly dependent on the continued services of a limited number of our executive officers and key management personnel. The loss of services of any of these individuals may have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. The senior management team of Home Federal Bancorp in place at the time of the mutual holding company reorganization in December 2007 had worked together for a number of years and, until recently, virtually all of them had worked for us for five years or more. Daniel L. Stevens, the previous President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since 1995, retired on September 30, 2008, but in January 2008 transitioned the roles of President and Chief Executive Officer to Len E. Williams, who joined us in late 2006. Mr. Stevens continues to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Eric S. Nadeau, our current Chief Financial Officer, joined Home Federal Bancorp in June 2008, replacing Robert E. Schoelkoph, who had been with us for 29 years before his retirement in October 2008. The individual who served as Chief Lending Officer since 1993 retired in October 2007 and was replaced by Steven D. Emerson, our Executive Vice President of Commercial Banking and Chief Lending Officer, who has been with us since December 2006. Steven K. Eyre serves as our Executive Vice President of Consumer Banking and joined the management team in December 2007. Additionally, our Senior Vice President of Operations and Technology and our Chief Credit Officer joined us in September 2007 and March 2007, respectively. We believe we have in place qualified individuals and have provided for an orderly transition. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Moreover, our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our human resources and will require the recruitment of additional middle management personnel. The competition to hire experienced banking professionals is also intense. If we are unable to attract qualified banking professionals, our expansion plans could be delayed or curtailed and our business, financial condition, and profitability may be adversely affected. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move 44 contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our business is subject to various lending risks which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business strategy centers on the continued transition to commercial banking activities in order to expand our net interest margin. Consistent with this strategy, we are working to further reduce the percentage of our assets that are lower-yielding residential loans and mortgage-backed securities and to increase the percentage of our assets consisting of construction and land development, commercial and multi-family real estate and commercial business loans that have higher risk-adjusted returns. Our increasing focus on these types of lending will continue to increase our risk profile relative to traditional thrift institutions as we continue to implement our business strategy for the following reasons: Our increased emphasis on commercial lending may expose us to increased lending risks. Our business strategy is focused on the expansion of commercial and small business lending, with continued emphasis on commercial real estate, construction and land development loans. These types of lending activities, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, are generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. Collateral evaluation and financial statement analysis in these types of loans requires a more detailed analysis at the time of loan underwriting and on an ongoing basis. A decline in real estate values would reduce the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans and increase the risk that we would incur losses if borrowers defaulted on their loans. In addition, these loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property and the income stream of the borrowers. Further, such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four family residential mortgage loans. Also, many of our commercial borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Accordingly, when there are defaults and losses on these types of loans, they are often larger on a per loan basis than those for permanent single-family or consumer loans. A secondary market for most types of commercial real estate and construction loans is not readily liquid, so we have less opportunity to mitigate credit risk by selling part or all of our interest in these loans. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. While commercial business loans comprise a small percentage of our loan portfolio, we intend to significantly expand these types of loans. Our commercial business loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. Most often, this collateral consists of accounts receivable, inventory or equipment. Credit support provided by the borrower for most of these loans and the probability of repayment is based on the liquidation of the pledged collateral and enforcement of a personal guarantee, if any exists. As a result, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from it customers. The collateral securing other loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Our commercial and multi-family real estate loans involve higher principal amounts than other loans and repayment of these loans may be dependent on factors outside our control or the control of our borrowers. Accordingly, if we 45 make any errors in judgment in the collectibility of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans, any resulting charge-offs may be larger on a per loan basis than those incurred with our residential or consumer loan portfolios. The credit risk related to commercial and multi-family real estate loans is considered to be greater than the risk related to one- to four-family residential or consumer loans because the repayment of commercial and multifamily real estate loans typically is dependent on the income stream of the real estate securing the loan as collateral and the successful operation of the borrower’s business, which can be significantly affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the economy. For example, if the cash flow from the borrower’s project is reduced as a result of leases not being obtained or renewed, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In addition, many of our commercial and multi-family real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. These balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the balloon payment. Because our loans are concentrated to borrowers in our market area, a downturn in the local economy or a decline in local real estate values could cause increases in nonperforming loans, which could hurt our profits. The majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the Boise and surrounding metropolitan area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We do not have the ability of a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the State of Idaho could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, profitability and financial condition. Moreover, we may not benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in the Boise metropolitan area were to decline materially, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on Home Federal Bank. Substantially all of our loans secured by real property and concentrated in the State of Idaho. A continued decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. As a result, we have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area as adverse economic changes may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayment of their loans. Consequently, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected. Further declines in the housing market in the Treasure Valley may result in significant losses in our construction and land development loan portfolio We make land purchase, lot development and real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties and, to a lesser extent, commercial and multi-family real estate projects. We will originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans include single-family tract construction loans for the construction of entry level residential homes. Our construction and land development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project, which may be inaccurate. Construction and land development lending involves additional risks when compared with permanent residential lending because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs, as well as the market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real 46 property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. This type of lending also typically involves higher loan principal amounts and is often concentrated with a small number of builders. These loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment primarily dependent on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or obtain permanent take-out financing, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of a completed project proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project and may incur a loss. Our ability to continue to originate a significant amount of construction loans is dependent on the continued strength of the housing market in the Treasure Valley Region of Southwest Idaho. Further, if we lost our relationship with one or more of our larger borrowers building in these counties or there is a decline in the demand for new housing in these counties, it is expected that the demand for construction loans would decline, our liquidity would substantially increase and our net income would be adversely affected. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital levels could be reduced. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and evaluate economic conditions. Management recognizes that significant new growth in loan portfolios, new loan products and the refinancing of existing loans can result in portfolios comprised of unseasoned loans that may not perform in a historical or projected manner. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual losses, resulting in additions to our allowance. Material additions to our allowance could materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize additional loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and profitability. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to it are subject to regular modification and change. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in this regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects or profitability. Federal and state governments could adopt laws responsive to the current credit conditions that would adversely affect our ability to collect on loans. Federal or state governments might adopt legislation or regulations reducing the amount that our customers are required to pay under existing loan contracts or limit our ability to foreclose on collateral. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. 47 Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated, or adverse regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits at the Bank. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from the Bank in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at the Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. If external funds are not available, this could adversely impact our growth and future prospects. We rely on deposits and Federal Home Loan Bank advances to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits if desired, we might not be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or market conditions were to change. Although we consider the sources of existing funds adequate for our current liquidity needs, we may seek additional brokered deposits or debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional funds, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including Home Federal Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In October 2008, the FDIC issued a proposed rule that would increase premiums paid by insured institutions and make other changes to the assessment system. Increases in deposit insurance premiums could adversely affect our net income. We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability. We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles. In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition. We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. 48 To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Act”) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 