D. Risk Factors” or in other parts of this annual report. Following the sale of Datong on March 25, 2011, we present our financial results for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 on both a continuing and discontinued basis. Profits and losses related to Datong were presented as discontinued operations while profits and losses for the remaining business were presented as continuing operations. A. Operating Results Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations As an insurance intermediary in China, our financial condition and results of operations are affected by a variety of factors, including: · total premium payments to Chinese insurance companies; · the extent to which insurance companies in the PRC outsource the distribution of their products and claims adjusting functions; · premium rate levels and commission and fee rates; · the size and productivity of our sales force; · acquisitions; · commission rates for individual sales agents; · product and service mix; · share-based compensation expenses; and · seasonality. Total Premium Payments to Chinese Insurance Companies The Chinese insurance industry has grown substantially in the past decade. Between 2003 and 2014, total insurance premiums increased from RMB388.0 billion to RMB2.0 trillion, representing a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 16.2%, according to the CIRC. We believe that certain macroeconomic and demographic factors, such as increasing per capita GDP and an aging population, have contributed to and will continue to drive the growth of the Chinese insurance industry in the long term. - 54 - We derive our revenue primarily from commissions and fees paid by insurance companies, typically calculated as a percentage of premiums paid by our customers to the insurance companies. Accordingly, industry-wide premium growth will have a positive impact on us. However, there is uncertainty when the rapid growth trend will resume. Any continued downturn in the Chinese insurance industry, whether caused by a general slowdown of the PRC economy or otherwise, may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Extent to Which Insurance Companies in the PRC Outsource the Distribution of their Products and Claims Adjusting Functions Historically, insurance companies in the PRC have relied primarily on their exclusive individual sales agents and direct sales force to sell their products. Only in recent years, as a result of increased competition, have some insurance companies gradually expanded their distribution channels to include insurance intermediaries such as commercial banks, postal offices, insurance agencies and insurance brokerages. In addition, because of a lack of established distribution networks of their own, some newly established insurance companies have chosen to rely primarily on insurance intermediaries to distribute their products while they focus on other aspects of their business. As insurance companies in the PRC become more accustomed to outsourcing the distribution of their products to insurance intermediaries, they may allow insurance intermediaries to distribute a wider variety of insurance products and may provide more monetary incentives to more productive and effective insurance intermediaries. These and other similar measures designed to boost sales through insurance intermediaries can have a positive impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, as competition intensifies and the insurance market becomes more mature in China, we expect that more insurance companies will choose to outsource claims adjusting functions to professional service providers such as our affiliated claims adjusting firms while they focus on the core aspects of their business, including product development, asset and risk management. Premium Rate Levels and Commission and Fee Rates Because the commissions and fees we receive from insurance companies for the distribution of insurance products are generally calculated as a percentage of premiums paid by our customers to the insurance companies, our revenue and results of operations are affected by premium rate levels and commission and fee rates. Premium rate levels and commission and fee rates can change based on the prevailing economic conditions, competitive and regulatory landscape, and other factors that affect insurance companies. These other factors include the ability of insurance companies to place new business, underwriting and non-underwriting profits of insurance companies, consumer demand for insurance products, the availability of comparable products from other insurance companies at a lower cost, and the tax deductibility of commissions and fees. In addition, premium rates for certain insurance products, such as the mandatory automobile liability insurance that each automobile owner in the PRC is legally required to purchase, are tightly regulated by the CIRC. In some instances, we can negotiate for better rates as an incentive for generating a larger volume of business. Since China’s entry into the WTO in December 2001, competition among insurance companies has intensified as a result of a significant increase in the number of insurance companies and the existing insurance companies’ expansion into new geographic markets. This competition has led to a gradual increase in the commission and fee rates offered to insurance intermediaries, and such increase has had a positive impact on our results of operations. Meanwhile, the intense competition among insurance companies also has led to a gradual decline in premium rate levels of some property and casualty insurance products. While such decline has had a negative impact on the commissions and fees we earned on a per policy sold basis, it also may have had a positive impact on our total commissions and fees revenue by increasing demand for, and our total sales volume of, those policies. The Size and Productivity of Our Sales Force As a distributor of insurance products, we generate revenue primarily through our sales force, which consists of individual sales agents in our distribution and service network and a relatively small number of in-house sales representatives. The size of our sales force and its productivity, as measured by the average number of insurance products sold per person, the average premium per product sold and the average premiums generated per person during any specified period, directly affect our revenue and results of operations. In recent years, some entrepreneurial management staffs or senior sales agents of major insurance companies in China have chosen to leave their employers or principals and become independent agents. We refer to these independent agents as “entrepreneurial agents.” An entrepreneurial agent is usually able to assemble and lead a team of sales agents. We have been actively recruiting and will continue to recruit entrepreneurial agents to join our distribution and service network as our sales agents. Entrepreneurial agents have been instrumental to the development of our life insurance business. - 55 - Acquisitions The professional insurance intermediary sector in China is still at an early development stage and highly fragmented. Historically, we have expanded our distribution and service network in part through selective acquisitions of high-quality independent insurance intermediary companies. Since 2008, we, through our consolidated affiliated entities in the PRC, acquired controlling interests in 18 insurance agencies (excluding Datong and its subsidiaries), five insurance claims adjusting firms (one of which was restructured into a holding company of the three claims adjusting firms) and one online insurance service company as of March 31, 2015. In recent years, market opportunities for independent insurance intermediaries have expanded rapidly due to the growth of the internet and we have launched several online platforms to embrace these opportunities. In order to strengthen the core competitiveness of our online platforms, we intend to seek acquisitions of businesses including leading wealth management companies engaged in internet finance, or companies that have innovative business models or leading technologies in internet finance. We expect acquisitions to have a positive impact on our results of operations in the long run. However, acquisitions also involve significant risks and uncertainties. See “Item 3. Key Information — Risk Factors — D.Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry — If we fail to integrate acquired companies efficiently, or if the acquired companies do not perform to our expectations, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected.” In addition, any write-down of goodwill due to impairment and the amortization of intangible assets acquired could have a negative impact on our results of operations. See “Item 3. Key Information — D.Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry — If we are required to write down goodwill and other intangible assets, our financial condition and results may be materially and adversely affected.” Commission Rates for Individual Sales Agents A large component of our operating costs and expenses is commissions paid to our individual sales agents. In order to retain sales agents, we must pay commissions at a level comparable to the commissions paid by our competitors. Intensified competition for productive sales agents within the Chinese insurance industry and rising salaries in China have led to a significant increase in commission rates in recent years. The increase in commission rates has had a negative impact on our results of operations. If we are forced to further increase our commission rates for individual sales agents due to competition or otherwise, our operating costs and expenses will increase correspondingly. Product and Service Mix We began distributing automobile insurance products in 1999 and expanded our product offerings to other property and casualty insurance products in 2002 and then to individual life insurance products in 2006, primarily to individual customers. We further broadened our service offering to cover insurance claims adjusting services in 2008. We started to offer insurance brokerage services for commercial line insurance to corporate clients and reinsurance brokerage services in 2010 and referral services for wealth management products in 2012. In the first quarter of 2014, we realigned our financial reporting structure into three business segments that more accurately reflect our organizational structure and changing business mix. Under the realigned business structure, our business is divided into three reporting operating segments: (1) insurance agency, (2) insurance brokerage, and (3) claims adjusting. Insurance Agency Segment Our largest segment by revenue, the insurance agency segment, provides a broad range of property and casualty and life insurance products to individual customers. The property and casualty insurance policies we distribute are typically for one-year terms, with a single premium payable at the beginning of the term. Accordingly, we receive a single commission or fee for each property and casualty policy our customers purchase. In order for us to have recurring commission and fee revenue from property and casualty insurance products, our customers have to renew their policies or purchase new policies through us every year. Most individual life insurance policies we sell require periodic payment of premiums, typically annually, during a pre-determined payment period, generally ranging from five to 25 years. For each such policy that we sell, insurance companies will pay us a first-year commission and fee based on a percentage of the first year’s gross premiums, and subsequent commissions and fees based on smaller percentages of the renewal premiums paid by the insured throughout the payment period of the policy. Therefore, once we sell a life insurance policy with a periodic payment schedule, it can bring us a steady flow of commission and fee revenue throughout the payment period as long as the insured meets his or her premium payment commitment. - 56 - Because insurance companies pay us first-year commissions and fees for most life insurance products at rates higher than those for property and casualty insurance products, we expect a positive impact on our revenue if our distribution of life insurance products increases in the future. However, we will also incur a corresponding increase in operating costs because we pay our sales agents a higher commission and fee for distributing life insurance products. Hence, gross margin attributable to the agency segment remained relatively stable in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Insurance Brokerage Segment For insurance brokerage services in connection with commercial line insurance, insurance companies typically pay us brokerage fees as a percentage of the insurance premiums. We pay our in-house insurance brokers salary or non-affiliated brokers who we assist in the negotiation or placement of insurance programs with underwriters a share of the commissions we receive from insurance companies. Gross margin of this line of business was slightly higher than that of our retail line of property and casualty insurance business and our life insurance business and lower than that of claims adjusting business. We expect the revenues from our insurance brokerage business as a percentage of our total net revenues to increase over the next few years and that such an increase will have a positive impact on our gross margin and operating margin. Claims Adjusting Segment The fees we receive for our claims adjusting services are calculated based on the types of insurance involved. For services provided in connection with property and casualty insurance (other than marine cargo insurance and automobile insurance), our fees are calculated as a percentage of the recovered amount from insurance companies plus travel expenses. For services provided in connection with marine cargo insurance, our fees are charged primarily on an hourly basis and, in some cases, as a percentage of the amount recovered from insurance companies. For automobile insurance, our fees are generally fixed and the amounts collected are based on the types of services provided. In some cases, our fees are charged based on the number of claims adjustors involved in providing the services. We pay our in-house claims adjustors a base salary plus a commission calculated based on a small percentage of the service fees we receive from insurance companies or the insured. The claims adjusting business has become and likely will continue to be an important source of our net revenues. The gross margin and operating margin attributable to the claims adjusting business were higher than those for both property and casualty insurance products and life insurance product. We expect that revenues from our claims adjusting business as a percentage of our total net revenues to remain stable over the next few years. Other Services During 2012 and 2013, we received service fees from a subsidiary of CFSG for the provision of IT services and referral service fees from our wealth management product supplier if customers referred by our sales agents purchase wealth management products from the supplier. We paid commissions to our sales agents, which are calculated as a percentage of the value of wealth management products purchased by the customers. Gross margin from this business was higher than other business lines except for the claim adjustment business. However, in 2014 we discontinued providing IT services to the subsidiary of CFSG. We also ceased offering wealth management products to our customers because of tightened regulations on the distribution of wealth management products by insurance intermediaries. Share-based Compensation Expenses Our historical results of operations have been materially affected by the share-based compensation expenses incurred. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, we incurred share-based compensation expenses of RMB66.9 million, RMB45.3 million and RMB23.6 million (US$3.8 million), respectively. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Key Performance Indicators — Operating Costs and Expenses — Share-based Compensation Expenses” for a more detailed discussion of our historical share-based compensation expenses. In order to attract and retain the best personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, provide additional incentive to employees, directors and consultants and promote the success of our business, we adopted a share incentive plan in October 2007. Under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan, as amended and restated in December 2008, we may issue an aggregate number of our ordinary shares, equal to 15% of our total number of shares outstanding immediately after the closing of our initial public offering, to cover awards granted under the plan. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees — B. Compensation — Share Incentives — 2007 Share Incentive Plan.” We expect that share-based compensation expenses will continue to be a significant component of our operating expenses. - 57 - Seasonality Our quarterly results of operations are affected by seasonal variations caused by insurance companies’ business practices and consumer demand. Historically, insurance companies, under pressure to meet their annual sales targets, would increase their sales efforts during the fourth quarter of a year by, for example, offering more incentives for insurance intermediaries to increase sales. As a result, our commission and fee revenue for the fourth quarter of a year has generally been the highest among all four quarters. Business activities, including buying and selling insurance, usually slow down during the Chinese New Year festivities, which occur during the first quarter of each year. As a result, our commission and fee revenue for the first quarter of a year has generally been the lowest among all four quarters. Key Performance Indicators Before January 1, 2014, we operated in three operating segments: (1) property and casualty insurance; (2) life insurance; and (3) insurance claims adjusting services. In the first quarter of 2014, we realigned our financial reporting structure into four business segments that more accurately reflect our organizational structure and changing business mix. Under the realigned business structure, our business is divided into three reporting operating segments: (1) insurance agency, (2) insurance brokerage, and (3) claims adjusting. The insurance agency segment provides a broad range of property and casualty and life insurance products to individual customers. Historical results reflecting the new business segments for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are also restated. Net Revenues Our revenues are net of PRC business tax. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, we generated net revenues of RMB1.6 billion, RMB1.8 billion and RMB2.2 billion (US$346.5 million), respectively. We derive net revenues from the following sources: · Insurance agency segment: commissions paid by insurance companies for the distribution of (i) property and casualty products, and (ii) life insurance products, primarily to individual customers, which accounted for 82.3%, 80.7% and 75.6% of our net revenues for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively; · Insurance brokerage segment: commissions and advisory fees for (i) insurance and reinsurance brokerage services primarily paid by the insurance companies, and (ii) risk management consulting services primarily paid by the insureds, which accounted for 3.1%, 3.6% and 10.8% of our net revenues for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively; · Claims adjusting segment: commissions and fees primarily paid by the insurance companies and, to a lesser degree, by the insureds for the provision of claims adjusting services, which accounted for 13.7%, 14.9% and 13.6% of our net revenues for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively; · Other services: which consists of fees for non-insurance related services such as service fees derived from the referral of wealth management products and the provision of IT services. These other service fees accounted for 0.9%, 0.8% and nil of our net revenues for 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The following table sets forth our total net revenues earned from each of our reporting segments both in absolute amounts and as percentages of total net revenues, for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ % (in thousands except percentages) Insurance agency segment 1,305,310 82.3 1,418,512 80.7 1,624,410 261,807 75.6 Insurance brokerage segment 48,855 3.1 63,418 3.6 232,620 37,492 10.8 Claims adjusting segment 217,497 13.7 261,206 14.9 292,981 47,220 13.6 Other services 14,455 0.9 13,888 0.8 — — — Total net revenues 1,586,117 100.0 1,757,024 100.0 2,150,011 346,519 100.0 - 58 - Net revenues from the insurance agency segment, in particular, automobile insurance products, have been our primary source of revenue since our inception. Net revenues from the insurance agency segment increased from 2012 to 2014. As the per capita automobile ownership in China is still low, automobile sales in China still have significant growth potential. Therefore, we expect that automobile insurance products will continue to be a significant contributor to our total net revenues in the next several years. We established an insurance brokerage business unit to expand into the business of offering commercial lines of property and casualty insurance in 2010. Net revenues from the insurance brokerage segment increased from 2012 to 2014 in both absolute amounts and as a percentage of our total net revenues, primarily reflecting the strong growth of our insurance brokerage business during the period. As we continue to grow our insurance brokerage business, we expect that net revenues from the insurance brokerage segment will remain stable as a percentage of our total net revenues in the next few years. We began providing claims adjusting services in 2008. Net revenues from our claims adjusting segment increased from 2012 to 2014 in absolute amounts, primarily reflecting the stable growth of our claims adjusting business during the period. As we continue to grow our claims adjusting business, we expect that net revenues from claims adjusting services will remain stable as a percentage of our total net revenues in the next few years. Net revenues from other services mainly includes non-insurance related services such as referral services of wealth management products and IT service fees. We began to offer wealth management products to our insurance customers in 2012 and ceased the service in 2014 due to tightened regulations on the distribution of wealth management products by insurance intermediaries. In 2012 and 2013, we provided IT platform and software services to a third party and an affiliated entity through one of our affiliated entities, Litian Zhuoyue, including system operation, data storage, data maintenance, system security and efficiency maintenance, on-site support, software optimization and maintenance and other IT platform related services. We ceased providing IT services to these entities in 2014. We do not expect these service fees to constitute a significant portion of our total net revenues in the future. The commissions and fees we receive from the distribution of insurance products are based on a percentage of the premiums paid by the insured. Commission and fee rates generally depend on the type of insurance products, the particular insurance company and the region in which the insurance products are sold. We typically receive payment of the commissions and fees from insurance companies for insurance products on a monthly basis. Some of the fees are paid to us annually or semi-annually in the form of performance bonuses after we achieve specified premium volume or policy renewal goals as agreed upon between the insurance companies and us. We are compensated primarily by insurance companies for our claims adjusting services. The fees we receive for our claims adjusting services depend on the types of insurance involved. For services provided in connection with marine cargo insurance, our fees are charged primarily on an hourly basis and, in some cases, as a percentage of the amount recovered from insurance companies. For claims adjusting services related to automobile insurance, our fees are generally fixed on a per claim basis, or in some cases, on a per head basis. These fees are typically paid to us on a quarterly basis. For services provided in connection with other property and casualty insurance, our fees are calculated as a percentage of the recovered amount from insurance companies plus travel expenses. We typically receive payment for these fees on a semi-annual or annual basis. - 59 - Operating Costs and Expenses Our operating costs and expenses consist of costs incurred in connection with the distribution of insurance products and the provision of claims adjusting services, selling expenses and general and administrative expenses. The following table sets forth the components of our operating costs and expenses, both in absolute amounts and as percentages of our net revenues, for the periods indicated. Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ % (in thousands except percentages) Total net revenues 1,586,117 100.0 1,757,024 100.0 2,150,011 346,519 100.0 Operating costs (1,085,809 ) (68.5 ) (1,293,372 ) (73.6 ) (1,615,157 ) (260,316 ) (75.1 ) Selling expenses (78,449 ) (4.9 ) (96,461 ) (5.5 ) (107,263 ) (17,288 ) (5.0 ) General and administrative expenses (356,033 ) (22.4 ) (349,205 ) (19.9 ) (396,692 ) (63,935 ) (18.5 ) Total operating costs and expenses (1,520,291 ) (95.8 ) (1,739,038 ) (99.0 ) (2,119,112 ) (341,539 ) (98.6 ) Operating Costs We incur costs primarily in connection with the distributions of insurance products and provisions of insurance brokerage and claims adjusting services. The costs that we incurred increased in absolute amounts each year from 2012 to 2014 primarily as a result of an increase in net revenues and an increase in the size of our sales force and claims adjustors. We rely mainly on individual sales agents and a small number of in-house sales representatives, and to a much lesser degree, on our online insurance marketplace for the distributions of insurance products. For insurance and reinsurance brokerage services, we mainly rely on our in-house brokers and non-affiliated brokers. For claims adjusting services, we rely entirely on our in-house claims adjustors. Costs incurred as a percentage of net revenues increased from 2012 to 2014, primarily due to a significant rise in policy acquisition costs and commission costs as a result of increasing labor cost pressure and greater market competition. We anticipate that our costs will continue to increase in absolute amounts as we further grow our business. Selling Expenses Our selling expenses primarily consist of: · salaries and employment benefits for employees who work in back office below the provincial management level; · office rental, telecommunications and office supply expenses incurred in connection with sales activities; and · advertising and marketing expenses. We expect that our selling expenses will continue to increase as we expand our distribution and service network in both existing markets and new geographic regions. As we grow in size, we also intend to spend more on marketing and advertising to enhance our brand recognition and promote our online platforms. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses principally comprise: · salaries and benefits for our administrative staff; · share-based compensation expenses for managerial and administrative staff; · research and development expenses in relation to our mobile and online programs; · professional fees paid for valuation, market research, legal and auditing services; · compliance-related expenses, including expenses for professional services; · depreciations and amortizations; · office rental expenses; - 60 - · travel and telecommunications expenses; · entertainment expenses; · office supply expenses for our administrative staff; and · foreign exchange loss. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase as we hire additional administrative personnel, pay higher labor costs and incur additional costs in connection with the expansion of our business, and our efforts to develop our e-commerce platform. Share-based compensation expenses. Share-based compensation expenses constituted one of the largest components of our general and administrative expenses in 2012, 2013 and 2014. We incurred share-based compensation with respect to certain managerial and administrative staff and a small number of sales agents in 2012, 2013 and 2014. The following table sets forth our share-based compensation expenses, both in absolute amounts and as percentages of our general and administrative expenses, for the periods indicated. For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ % (in thousands except percentages) Share-based compensation expenses 66,878 18.8 45,317 13.0 23,598 3,803 5.9 Others 289,155 81.2 303,888 87.0 373,094 60,132 94.1 General and administrative expenses 356,033 100.0 349,205 100.0 396,692 63,935 100.0 Our share-based compensation expenses in 2012, 2013 and 2014 were primarily attributable to the options granted in November 2008, March 2009 and March 2012. For more information about our share-based compensation expenses, please see Note 19 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. Taxation We and each of our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities file separate income tax returns. The Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Hong Kong Under the current laws of the Cayman Islands and the British Virgin Islands, we and our subsidiaries incorporated in the British Virgin Islands are not subject to income or capital gains taxes. In addition, dividend payments are not subject to withholding tax in those jurisdictions. Our subsidiary incorporated in Hong Kong is subject to a normal profits tax rate of 16.5% of its assessable profits for the years of assessment ending March 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015. Payment of dividends is not subject to withholding tax in Hong Kong. PRC Pursuant to the PRC EIT laws in effect before January 1, 2008, most of our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China were subject to the standard EIT rate, which was 33%. Our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities located in Shenzhen, a special economic zone, were subject to an EIT rate of 15%. The EIT was calculated based on taxable income under PRC accounting principles. For some entities, the EIT is calculated based on the actual revenue at a deemed tax rate according to the local practices of the respective local tax bureaus in charge. In addition, our subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities in China are subject to a 5% business tax on gross revenues generated from providing services and two additional fees, the city construction fee and the education fee, which are generally calculated at 7% and 3%, respectively, on business tax. - 61 - On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the EIT Law which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the State Counsel issued the Implementation Rules which became effective on January 1, 2008. On December 26, 2007, the State Council issued the Transition Preferential Policy Circular which also became effective on January 1, 2008. According to the EIT Law, as further clarified by the Implementation Rules, the Transition Preferential Policy Circular and other related regulations, foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. The EIT rate of enterprises established before March 16, 2007 that were eligible for preferential tax treatments according to then effective tax laws and regulations will continue to enjoy such preferential tax treatments in the following manners: (1) in the case of preferential tax rates, for a five-year transition period starting from January 1, 2008, during which the EIT rate of such enterprises will gradually increase to the uniform 25% EIT rate by January 1, 2012; or (2) in the case of preferential tax exemption or reduction with a specified term, until the expiration of such term. However, if such an enterprise has not enjoyed the preferential treatments yet because of its failure to make a profit, its term for preferential treatment will be deemed to start from 2008. As a result of the implementation of the EIT Law, certain preferential tax treatments enjoyed by some of our consolidated affiliated entities expired on January 1, 2008. Our effective tax rate increased significantly in 2008 and 2009 compared to 2007, primarily due to these expirations. According to the EIT Law and related regulations, the preferential tax rates enjoyed by some of our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities incorporated in Shenzhen, a special economic zone, will gradually increase to the uniform 25% EIT rate during the five year transition period. An increase in the EIT rates for those entities pursuant to the EIT Law could result in an increase in our effective tax rate, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Pursuant to a Notice of Preferential Policies of EIT, jointly issued by the PRC Ministry of Finance and the SAT on February 22, 2008, a newly established software enterprise was entitled to an exemption from EIT for the first two years and a 50% reduction of EIT for the following three years starting from the first profit-making year. Our affiliated entities, Litian Zhuoyue and Shenzhen CNinsure Software Technology Co., Ltd. (also known as Shenzhen Fanhua Software Technology Co., Ltd.), are entitled to the tax holidays under this notice from 2010 to 2014 and 2012 to 2016, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies We prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities and the disclosure of our contingent assets and liabilities at the end of each fiscal period, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during each fiscal period. We continually evaluate these judgments and estimates based on our own historical experience, knowledge and assessment of current business and other conditions, our expectations regarding the future based on available information and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable. This forms our basis for making judgments about matters that are not readily apparent from other sources. Since the use of estimates is an integral component of the financial reporting process, our actual results could differ from those estimates. Some of our accounting policies require a higher degree of judgment than others in their application. The selection of critical accounting policies, the judgments and other uncertainties affecting application of those policies and the sensitivity of reported results to changes in conditions and assumptions are factors that should be considered when reviewing our financial statements. We believe the following accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Revenue Recognition Our revenue is derived principally from the provision of insurance brokerage, agency and claims adjusting services. We recognize revenue when all of the following have occurred: persuasive evidence of an agreement with the insurance companies or insurance agencies exists, services have been provided, the fees for such services are fixed or determinable and collectability of the fee is reasonably assured. Insurance agency services are considered to be rendered and completed, and revenue is recognized, at the time an insurance policy becomes effective, that is, when the signed insurance policy is in place and the premium is collected from the insured. We have met all the four criteria of revenue recognition when the premiums are collected by us or the respective insurance companies and not before, because collectability is not ensured until receipt of the premium. Accordingly, we do not accrue any commission and fees prior to the receipt of the related premiums. Insurance brokerage services revenue is recognized when the signed insurance policy is in place and the premium is collected from the insured and the commission settlement confirmation is received from insurance companies, because the commission rate for brokerage services is negotiated case by case and our fees are fixed when such confirmation is received. No allowance for cancellation has been recognized for agency and brokerage businesses as we estimate, based on its past experience that the cancellation of policies rarely occurs. Any subsequent commission adjustments in connection with policy cancellations which have been deminims to date are recognized upon notification from the insurance carriers. Actual commission and fee adjustments in connection with the cancellation of policies were 0.1%, 0.2% and 0.2% of the total commission and fee revenues during years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. For agency and brokerage services, we may receive a performance bonus from insurance companies as agreed and per contract provisions. Once an agency and brokerage company achieves its performance target, typically a certain sales volume, the bonus will become due. The bonus amount is computed based on the insurance premium amount multiplied by an agreed-upon percentage. The contingent commissions are recorded when a performance target is being achieved. - 62 - Insurance claims adjusting services are considered to be rendered and completed, and revenue is recognized at the time loss adjusting reports are confirmed being received by insurance companies. We have met all the four criteria of revenue recognition when the service is provided and the loss adjusting report is accepted by insurance companies. We do not accrue any service fee before the receipt of an insurance company’s acknowledgement of receiving the adjusting reports. Any subsequent adjustments in connection with discounts which have been de minims to date are recognized in revenue upon notification from the insurance companies. Other service fees include commission revenues derived from the referral of wealth management products to our customers. Revenues are recorded when the products have been sold to customers, at which time we have fulfilled all our services obligations. We present revenue net of sales taxes incurred. The sales taxes amounted to RMB99.0 million, RMB99.9 million and RMB121.0 million (US$19.5 million) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. According to the Announcement on the VAT Reform Pilot Program of the Transportation and Selected Modern Service Sectors issued by the State Tax Bureau in July 2012, the transportation and some selected modern service sectors, including research and development (R&D) and technical services, information technology services, cultural creative services, logistics support services, tangible personal property leasing services, and assurance and consulting service, should pay value-added tax instead of business tax based on a predetermined timetable (hereinafter referred to as the “VAT Reform”), effective September 1, 2012 for entities in Beijing and November 1, 2012 for entities in Guangdong. The VAT Reform expanded nation-wide in August 1, 2013. Share-based Compensation Employee share-based compensation All forms of share-based payments to employees, including employee stock options and employee stock purchase plans, are treated the same as any other form of compensation by recognizing the related cost in the consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income (loss). Compensation cost related to employee stock options or similar equity instruments is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. If an award requires satisfaction of one or more performance, or service conditions (or any combination thereof), compensation cost is recognized if the requisite service is rendered, and no compensation cost is recognized if the requisite service is not rendered. We recognize compensation cost for an award with only service conditions that has a graded vesting schedule on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for the entire award, provided that the amount of compensation cost recognized at any date must at least equal the portion of the grant-date value of the award that is vested at that date. For awards with both service and performance conditions, if each tranche has an independent performance condition for a specified period of service, we recognize the compensation cost of each tranche as a separate award on a straight-line basis; if each tranche has performance conditions that are dependent of activities that occur in the prior service periods, we recognize the compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award as if the award was, in-substance, multiple awards. - 63 - No compensation cost is recognized for instruments that employees forfeit because a service condition or a performance condition is not satisfied. Non-employee share-based compensation Share-based compensation related to non-employees is recognized as compensation expenses ratably over the requisite service periods. We measure the cost of non-employee services received in exchange for share-based compensation based on the fair value of the equity instruments issued. We measure the fair value of the equity instruments in these transactions on the measurement date, which is determined as the earlier of the date at which a commitment for performance by the counterparty to earn the equity instruments is reached, or the date at which the counterparty’s performance is complete. The quantity and terms of the equity instruments issued to non-employees are not known up front as they are dependent upon counterparty performance conditions, we measure the equity instruments at their then-current lowest aggregate fair value at each reporting dates, and attributes the changes in those fair values over the future services period until the measurement date has been established. Modification of an Award A modification of the terms or conditions of an equity award is treated as an exchange of the original award for a new award. We measure the effects of a modification as follows: a. Incremental compensation cost shall be measured as the excess, if any, of the fair value of the modified award determined over the fair value of the original award immediately before its terms are modified, measured based on the share price and other pertinent factors at that date; and b. the total recognized compensation cost for an equity award shall at least equal the fair value of the award at the grant date unless at the date of the modification the performance or service conditions of the original award are not expected to be satisfied. We record the incremental fair-value-based measure, if any, of the modified award, as compensation cost on the date of modification (for vested awards) or over the remaining service (vesting) period (for unvested awards). Cancellation of an Award A cancellation of an award that is not accompanied by the concurrent grant of (or offer to grant) a replacement award or other valuable consideration shall be accounted for as a repurchase for no consideration. Accordingly, any previously unrecognized compensation cost shall be recognized at the cancellation date. We use the Black-Scholes and Binominal option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options. Determining the value of our share-based compensation expense in future periods requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including estimated forfeitures and the price volatility of the underlying shares. The management estimates the forfeitures of the shares based on past employee retention rates and its expectations of future retention rates, and it will prospectively revise the forfeiture rates based on actual history. The share compensation charges may change based on changes to the actual forfeitures. The actual share-based compensation expenses may be materially different from the current expectations. Share-based compensation expenses of RMB66.9 million, RMB45.3 million and RMB23.6 million (US$3.8 million) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively, were included in the general and administrative expenses. Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-lived Assets Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are required to be tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets might be impaired. If we determine that the carrying value of our goodwill or acquired intangible assets have been impaired, the carrying value will be written down. To assess potential impairment of goodwill, we perform an assessment of the carrying value of our reporting units at least on an annual basis or when events and changes in circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of our reporting units below their carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we would perform the second step in our assessment process and record an impairment loss to earnings to the extent the carrying amount of the reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units through internal analysis and external valuations as needed, which utilize income and market valuation approaches through the application of capitalized earnings and discounted cash flow. These valuation techniques are based on a number of estimates and assumptions, including the projected future operating results of the reporting unit, appropriate discount rates and long-term growth rates. - 64 - The fair value of each reporting unit is determined by analysis of discounted cash flows. The significant assumptions regarding our future operating performance are revenue growth rates, commission and fees growth rates, discount rates and terminal values. If any of these assumptions changes, the estimated fair value of our reporting units will change, which could affect the amount of goodwill impairment charges, if any. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, management compared the carrying value of each reporting unit, including assigned goodwill, to its respective fair value, which is step one of the two-step impairment test. The fair values of all reporting units were estimated by using the income approach. Based on this quantitative test, it was determined that the fair value of each reporting unit tested exceeded its carrying amount and, therefore, step two of the two-step goodwill impairment test was not required. Management concluded that goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014. · For the insurance agency segment, we projected a five-year discounted cash flow. Basic assumptions in the cash flow projection included, among others, an estimated annual growth of between 5% to 15% in net revenues in the coming 5 years with reference to the stabilizing growth rate in 2014 a terminal revenue growth rate of 3%, and gross profit of 23% to 25%, which is similar to the level in 2014. Any projection beyond 5 years by us cannot be estimated with reasonable accuracy, since the business environment is rapidly changing. The discount rate was set at 22%, based on the segment’s weighted average cost of capital and adjusted to reflect our and business-specific risks. For the agency segment, we had goodwill of RMB133.5 million (US$21.5 million) as of December 31, 2014. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value at December 31, 2014. Consequently, no goodwill impairment has been recognized. · For the claims adjusting segment, related goodwill was completely written off in 2011. The use of discounted cash flow methodology requires significant judgments including estimating future revenues and costs, industry economic factors, future profitability, determination of our weighted average cost of capital and other variables. Although we believe that the assumptions adopted in our discounted cash flow model are reasonable, those assumptions are inherently unpredictable and uncertain. If the reporting unit is at risk of failing step one of the impairment test, we will describe the material events, trends and uncertainties that affect the reported income and the extent to which income is so affected. Amortizable intangible assets and long-lived assets are required to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable from its undiscounted future cash flow. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge shall be recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Impairment of intangible assets with definite lives We evaluate the recoverability of identifiable intangible assets with determinable useful lives, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that these assets’ carrying amounts may not be recoverable. We measure the carrying amount of identifiable intangible asset with determinable useful live against the estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with it. Impairment exists when the sum of the expected future net cash flows is less than the carrying value of the asset being evaluated. Impairment loss is calculated as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. Fair value is estimated based on various valuation techniques, including the discounted value of estimated future cash flows. The evaluation of asset impairment requires us to make assumptions about future cash flows over the life of the asset being evaluated. These assumptions require significant judgment and actual results may differ from assumed and estimated amounts. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, no impairment loss on identifiable intangible assets with determinable useful lives was recognized. Impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets An intangible asset that is not subject to amortization is tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Such impairment test is to compare the fair values of assets with their carrying amounts and an impairment loss is recognized if and when the carrying amounts exceed the fair values. The estimates of fair values of intangible assets not subject to amortization are determined using various discounted cash flow valuation methodologies. Significant assumptions are inherent in this process, including estimates of discount rates or market price. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the respective intangible assets. Market prices are based on potential purchase quote from third party, if any. During the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, no impairment loss on its indefinite-lived intangible assets was recognized. - 65 - Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, net operating loss carry-forwards and credits by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in our opinion, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred income tax assets to an amount that we believe will more likely than not be realized. We have considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need and amount for the valuation allowance. In the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred income tax assets in the future in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to our deferred income tax assets would increase income in the period such determination was made. Alternatively, should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred income tax assets in the future, an adjustment to our deferred income tax assets would decrease income in the period such determination was made. Current income taxes are provided for in accordance with the laws of the relevant taxing authorities. The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are individually classified as current and non-current based on their characteristics. We recognize in our financial statements uncertainties in income taxes by prescribing a recognition threshold and measurement attributes for financial statement disclosure of tax positions taken, or expected to be taken on a tax return, based on the standards of ASC subtopic 740-10 ("ASC 740-10"), Income taxes. The impact of an uncertain income tax position on the income tax return is recognized at the largest amount that is more-likely-than- not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. In 2014, we have adopted FASB ASU No. 2013-11—Income Taxes (Topic 740): Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists prospectively, to present an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, in the balance sheets as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except to the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require us to use, and we do not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit is presented in the balance sheets as a liability. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued a new pronouncement which affects any entity using U.S. GAAP that either enters into contracts with customers to transfer goods or services or enters into contracts for the transfer of nonfinancial assets unless those contracts are within the scope of other standards (e.g., insurance contracts or lease contracts). This ASU will supersede the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605, Revenue Recognition, and most industry-specific guidance. This ASU also supersedes some cost guidance included in Subtopic 605-35, Revenue Recognition—Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. In addition, the existing requirements for the recognition of a gain or loss on the transfer of nonfinancial assets that are not in a contract with a customer (e.g., assets within the scope of Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment, and intangible assets within the scope of Topic 350, Intangibles—Goodwill and Other) are amended to be consistent with the guidance on recognition and measurement (including the constraint on revenue) in this ASU. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. To achieve that core principle, an entity should apply the following steps: · Step 1: Identify the contract(s) with a customer. · Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract. - 66 - · Step 3: Determine the transaction price. · Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. · Step 5: Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. For a public entity, the amendments in this ASU are effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is not permitted. An entity should apply the amendments in this ASU using one of the following two methods: 1. Retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented and the entity may elect any of the following practical expedients: · For completed contracts, an entity needs not restate contracts that begin and end within the same annual reporting period. · For completed contracts that have variable consideration, an entity may use the transaction price at the date the contract was completed rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the comparative reporting periods. · For all reporting periods presented before the date of initial application, an entity needs not disclose the amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations and an explanation of when the entity expects to recognize that amount as revenue. 2. Retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying this ASU recognized at the date of initial application. If an entity elects this transition method it should also provide the additional disclosures in reporting periods that include the date of initial application of: · The amount by which each financial statement line item is affected in the current reporting period by the application of this ASU as compared to the guidance that was in effect before the change. · An explanation of the reasons for significant changes. We are in the process of assessing the impact of adoption of this pronouncement on its consolidated financial condition or results from operations. In June 2014, the FASB issued a new pronouncement which requires that a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period be treated as a performance condition. A reporting entity should apply existing guidance in Topic 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation, as it relates to awards with performance conditions that affect vesting to account for such awards. The performance target should not be reflected in estimating the grant-date fair value of the award. Compensation cost should be recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the performance target will be achieved and should represent the compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the requisite service has already been rendered. If the performance target becomes probable of being achieved before the end of the requisite service period, the remaining unrecognized compensation cost should be recognized prospectively over the remaining requisite service period. The total amount of compensation cost recognized during and after the requisite service period should reflect the number of awards that are expected to vest and should be adjusted to reflect those awards that ultimately vest. The requisite service period ends when the employee can cease rendering service and still be eligible to vest in the award if the performance target is achieved. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. Entities may apply the amendments in this ASU either: (a) prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date; or (b) retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements and to all new or modified awards thereafter. If retrospective transition is adopted, the cumulative effect of applying this ASU as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements should be recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance at that date. In addition, if retrospective transition is adopted, an entity may use hindsight in measuring and recognizing the compensation cost. We do not expect the adoption of this pronouncement to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial condition or results from operations. In January 2015, the FASB issued a new pronouncement which eliminates from U.S. GAAP the concept of extraordinary items. Subtopic 225-20, Income Statement - Extraordinary and Unusual Items, required that an entity separately classify, present, and disclose extraordinary events and transactions. Presently, an event or transaction is presumed to be an ordinary and usual activity of the reporting entity unless evidence clearly supports its classification as an extraordinary item. - 67 - If an event or transaction meets the criteria for extraordinary classification, an entity is required to segregate the extraordinary item from the results of ordinary operations and show the item separately in the income statement, net of tax, after income from continuing operations. The entity also is required to disclose applicable income taxes and either present or disclose earnings-per-share data applicable to the extraordinary item. The FASB heard from stakeholders that the concept of extraordinary items causes uncertainty because it is unclear when an item should be considered both unusual and infrequent. Additionally, some stakeholders said that although users find information about unusual or infrequent events and transactions useful, they do not find the extraordinary item classification and presentation necessary to identify those events and transactions. Other stakeholders noted that it is extremely rare in current practice for a transaction or event to meet the requirements to be presented as an extraordinary item. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. A reporting entity may apply the amendments prospectively. A reporting entity also may apply the amendments retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. Early adoption is permitted provided that the guidance is applied from the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. We do not expect the adoption of this pronouncement to have a significant impact on our consolidated financial condition or results from operations. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our net revenues, operating costs and expenses and income from operations by reportable segments for the periods indicated. Before January 1, 2014, we operated in three operating segments: (1) property and casualty insurance; (2) life insurance; and (3) insurance claims adjusting services. In the first quarter of 2014, we realigned our financial reporting structure to more accurately reflect our organizational structure and changing business mix. Under the realigned business structure, our business is divided into three reporting operating segments: (1) insurance agency, (2) insurance brokerage, and (3) claims adjusting. Historical results reflecting the new business segments for 2012, 2013 and 2014 are also restated. - 68 - For the Year Ended December 31, 2012 2012 to 2013 Percentage Change 2013 2013 to 2014 Percentage Change 2014 RMB % RMB % RMB US$ (in thousands except percentages) Consolidated Statement of Income Data Net revenues: Agency 1,305,310 8.7 1,418,512 14.5 1,624,410 261,807 Brokerage 48,855 29.8 63,418 266.8 232,620 37,492 Claims adjusting 217,497 20.1 261,206 12.2 292,981 47,220 Other services 14,455 (3.9 ) 13,888 (100.0 ) — — Total net revenues 1,586,117 10.8 1,757,024 22.4 2,150,011 346,519 Operating costs and expenses: Operating costs: Agency (936,246 ) 16.9 (1,094,843 ) 15.3 (1,261,888 ) (203,379 ) Brokerage (29,716 ) 59.3 (47,351 ) 292.0 (185,593 ) (29,912 ) Claims adjusting (113,697 ) 25.1 (142,245 ) 17.9 (167,676 ) (27,025 ) Other services (6,150 ) 45.3 (8,933 ) (100.0 ) — — Total operating costs (1,085,809 ) 19.1 (1,293,372 ) 24.9 (1,615,157 ) (260,316 ) Selling expenses (78,449 ) 23.0 (96,461 ) 11.2 (107,263 ) (17,288 ) General and administrative expenses (356,033 ) (1.9 ) (349,205 ) 13.6 (396,692 ) (63,935 ) Total operating costs and expenses (1,520,291 ) 14.4 (1,739,038 ) 21.9 (2,119,112 ) (341,539 ) Income from operations: Agency 167,227 (32.3 ) 113,206 21.5 137,539 22,167 Brokerage 14,381 (32.5 ) 9,699 267.0 35,603 5,738 Claims adjusting 30,802 (12.1 ) 27,077 (35.6 ) 17,442 2,811 Other (146,584 ) (10.0 ) (131,996 ) 21.0 (159,685 ) (25,736 ) Income from operations 65,826 (72.7 ) 17,986 71.8 30,899 4,980 Other income, net: Investment income — 100.0 8,886 397.9 44,240 7,130 Interest income 90,323 (6.7 ) 84,250 (2.4 ) 82,251 13,256 Finance cost (2,439 ) (100.0 ) — — — — Others, net 6,742 (168.2 ) (4,601 ) (150.6 ) 2,330 376 Income from operations before income taxes and income of affiliates 160,452 (33.6 ) 106,521 49.9 159,720 25,742 Income tax expense (50,373 ) (46.1 ) (27,158 ) (10.6 ) (24,289 ) (3,915 ) Share of income of affiliates 14,658 40.7 20,621 48.6 30,649 4,940 Net income 124,737 (19.8 ) 99,984 66.1 166,080 26,767 Less: Net (loss) income attributable to the noncontrolling interests (5,773 ) (175.2 ) 4,341 (0.5 ) 4,320 696 Net income attributable to the Company’s shareholders 130,510 (26.7 ) 95,643 69.1 161,760 26,071 - 69 - Year ended December 31, 2014 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2013 Net Revenues Our total net revenues increased by 22.4% from RMB1.8 billion in 2013 to RMB2.2 billion (US$346.5 million) in 2014 primarily attributable to increases in net revenues from our insurance agency, claims adjusting and insurance brokerage segments. · Net revenues from our insurance agency segment increased by 14.5% from RMB1.4 billion in 2013 to RMB1.6 billion (US$261.8 million) in 2014, primarily resulting from the increases in sales volume and acquisition of three agency companies in April 2014. · Net revenues from insurance brokerage segment increased by 266.8% from RMB63.4 million in 2013 to RMB232.6 million (US$37.5 million) in 2014, primarily due to an increase in our customer base as a result of efforts to expand sales channels, develop innovative product offerings and cultivate markets in the past three years and the low base in this segment during year of 2013. · Net revenues from our claims adjusting segment increased by 12.2% from RMB261.2 million in 2013 to RMB293.0 million (US$47.2 million) in 2014. The increase primarily resulted from sales volume growth in the auto-related claims adjustment business. Operating Costs and Expenses Operating costs and expenses increased by 21.9% from RMB1.7 billion in 2013 to RMB2.1 billion (US$341.5 million) in 2014. Operating Costs. Our operating costs increased by 24.9% from RMB1.3 billion in 2013 to RMB1.6 billion (US$260.3 million) in 2014, primarily because of increases in operating costs for our agency insurance, brokerage insurance and claims adjusting segments. · Operating costs for our agency insurance segment increased by 15.3% from RMB1.1 billion in 2013 to RMB1.3 billion (US$203.4 million) in 2014. The significant increase was primarily due to the increase in commissions and fees paid to our sales agents, which reflected higher incentives to sales agents to promote the adoption of CNpad applications. · Operating costs for our brokerage insurance segment increased by 292.0% from RMB47.4 million in 2013 to RMB185.6 million (US$29.9 million) in 2014. The increase was primarily due to sales growth. - 70 - · Operating costs for our claims adjusting segment increased by 17.9% from RMB142.2 million in 2013 to RMB167.7 million (US$27.0 million) in 2014. The increase was primarily due to an increase in sales volume and increased salaries for claims adjustors. Selling Expenses. Our selling expenses increased by 11.2% from RMB96.5 million in 2013 to RMB107.3 million (US$17.3 million) in 2014 primarily due to an increase in vehicle, office and marketing expenses. General and Administrative Expenses. Our general and administrative expenses increased by 13.6% from RMB349.2 million in 2013 to RMB396.7 million (US$63.9 million) in 2014. The increases is mainly due to expenses incurred on research and development of online projects like CNpad, eHuzhu and Chetong.net, offset by a decrease in share-based compensation expense. Income from Operations As a result of the foregoing factors, income from operations increased by 71.8% from RMB18.0 million in 2013 to RMB30.9 million (US$5.0 million) in 2014. · Income from operations for our agency insurance segment increased by 21.5% from RMB113.2 million in 2013 to RMB137.5 million (US$22.1 million) in 2014. · Income from operations for our brokerage insurance segment significantly increased by 267.0% from RMB9.7 million in 2013 to RMB35.6 million (US$5.7 million) in 2014. · Income from operations for our claims adjusting segment decreased by 35.6% from RMB27.1 million in 2013 to RMB17.4 million (US$2.8 million) in 2014. Other Income Investment Income. Investment income mainly includes income received from short term investments in collective trust products and interbank deposits. Our investment income increase by 397.9% from RMB8.9 million in 2013 to RMB44.2 million (US$7.1 million) in 2014. The increase was primarily attributable to income received from trust products purchased in year 2013 as well as income from interbank deposits purchased in year 2014, and the non-recurring gain on remeasurement of previously held equity interest to fair value in the amount of RMB8.8million (US$1.4 million). Interest Income. Our interest income decreased by 2.4% from RMB84.3 million in 2013 to RMB82.3 million (US$13.3 million) in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in term deposits as a result of the increased short-term investments. Others, Net. Our other income, net, was a loss of RMB4.6 million in 2013 compared to an income of RMB2.3 million(US$0.4 million) in 2014, primarily due to the write-down of dividends receivables from Datong in 2013. Income from Operations before Income Taxes and Income of Affiliates As a result of the foregoing factors, our income from operations before income taxes and income of affiliates increased by 49.9% from RMB106.5 million in 2013 to RMB159.7 million(US$25.7 million) in 2014. Income Tax Expense Our income tax expense decreased by 10.6% from RMB27.2 million in 2013 to RMB24.3 million (US$3.9 million) in 2014. The effective tax rate in 2014 was 15.2% compared with 25.5% in 2013 due to (1) a tax exemption for two years and a 50% tax reduction for the succeeding three years enjoyed by our subsidiary, Ying Si Kang Information, starting from January 1, 2014; and (2) higher share-based compensation expenses charged for fiscal year 2013 which were non-tax deductible. Share of Income of Affiliates Our share of income of affiliates increased by 48.6% from RMB20.6 million in 2013 to RMB30.6 million (US$4.9 million) in 2014, primarily due to the rapid growth of net income generated by CFSG. - 71 - Net Income As a result of foregoing factors, our net income increased by 66.1% from RMB100.0 million in 2013 to RM166.1 million (US$26.8 million) in 2014. Net Income Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interests Our net income attributable to the non-controlling interests slightly decreased by 0.5% from RMB4.3 million in 2013 to RMB4.3 million (US$0.7 million)in 2014. Net Income Attributable to the Company’s Shareholders As a result of the foregoing, our net income attributable to our shareholders increased by 69.1% from RMB95.6 million in 2013 to RMB161.8 million (US$26.1 million) in 2014. Year ended December 31, 2013 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2012 Net Revenues Our total net revenues increased by 10.8% from RMB1.6 billion in 2012 to RMB1.8 billion in 2013 primarily attributable to increases in net revenues from our insurance agency segment, claims adjusting segment and insurance brokerage segment. · Net revenues from our insurance agency segment increased by 8.7% from RMB1.3 billion in 2012 to RMB1.4 billion in 2013, primarily resulting from the increases in both commission rates and sales volume of property and casualty insurance products, offset by a decrease in revenue of life insurance products due to shifted focus to the sales of protection insurance products which have lower average premium per policy compared to participating insurance products. · Net revenues from our brokerage segment increased by 29.8% from RMB48.9 million in 2012 to RMB63.4 million in 2013, primarily due to an increase of sale volume. · Net revenues from our claims adjusting segment increased by 20.1% from RMB217.5 million in 2012 to RMB261.2 million in 2013. The increase primarily resulted from sales volume growth in the auto-related claims adjustment business. · Net revenues from other services decreased by 3.9% from RMB14.5 million in 2012 to RMB13.9 million in 2013. Other services represented commission from wealth management products recommendation and IT services provided to an affiliate. Operating Costs and Expenses Operating costs and expenses increased by 14.4% from RMB1.5 billion in 2012 to RMB1.7 billion in 2013. The increase was primarily due to the increase in commissions and fees paid to our property and casualty insurance sales agents, which reflected higher commission rates in the automobile insurance market and higher policy acquisition costs due to increased competition from telemarketing by insurance companies, offset by the decrease of commission paid to life insurance agency due to the decrease in sales volume of life insurance products. Operating Costs. Our operating costs increased by 19.1% from RMB1.1 billion in 2012 to RMB1.3 billion in 2013, primarily because of increases in operating costs for our agency insurance, brokerage insurance and claims adjusting segments. · Operating costs for our agency insurance segment increased by 16.9% from RMB936.2 million in 2012 to RMB1.1 billion in 2013. The increase was primarily due to the increase in commissions and fees paid to our property and casualty insurance sales agents, which reflected higher commission rates in the automobile insurance market and higher policy acquisition costs due to increased competition from telemarketing by insurance companies, offset by the decrease of commission paid to life insurance agency due to the decrease in sales volume of life insurance products. · Operating costs for our brokerage insurance segment increased by 59.3% from RMB29.7 million in 2012 to RMB47.4 million in 2013. The increase was primarily due to an increase in sales volume. - 72 - · Operating costs for our claims adjusting segment increased by 25.1% from RMB113.7 million in 2012 to RMB142.2 million in 2013. The increase was primarily due to increases in sales volume. · Operating costs for other services increased by 45.3% from RMB6.1 million in 2012 to RMB8.9 million in 2013. Other services represented costs from wealth management products. Selling Expenses. Our selling expenses increased by 23.0% from RMB78.4 million in 2012 to RMB96.5 million in 2013 primarily due to sales increases and increases in staff salary, travel, gasoline and office expenses mostly incurred by the claims adjusting segment due to staff increase. General and Administrative Expenses. Our general and administrative expenses decreased slightly by 1.9% from RMB356.0 million in 2012 to RMB349.2 million in 2013. Income from Operations As a result of the foregoing factors, income from operations decreased by 72.7% from RMB65.8 million in 2012 to RMB18.0 million in 2013. · Income from operations for our agency insurance segment decreased by 32.3 % from RMB167.2 million in 2012 to RMB113.2 million in 2013. · Income from operations for our brokerage insurance segment significantly decreased by 32.5% from RMB14.4 million in 2012 to RMB9.7 million in 2013. · Income from operations for our claims adjusting segment decreased by 12.1% from RMB30.8 million in 2012 to RMB27.1 million in 2013 Other Income Interest Income. Our interest income decreased by 6.7% from RMB90.3 million in 2012 to RMB84.3 million in 2013. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the bank deposits as we increased short-term investment. Others, Net. Our other income, net, decreased by 168.2% from RMB6.7 million in 2012 to a loss of RMB4.6 million in 2013, primarily due to the write-down of dividends receivables from Datong. Income from Operations before Income Taxes and Income of Affiliates As a result of the foregoing factors, our income from operations before income taxes and income of affiliates decreased by 33.6% from RMB160.5 million in 2012 to RMB106.5 million in 2013. Income Tax Expense Our income tax expense decreased from RMB50.4 million in 2012 to RMB27.2 million in 2013, primarily due to decrease in operating income. The effective tax rate in 2013 was 25.5% compared with 31.4% in 2012 due to higher share-based compensation expenses charged in 2012 which were non-tax deductible. Share of Income of Affiliate Our share of income of affiliates increased from RMB14.7 million in 2012 to RMB20.6 million in 2013, primarily due to the rapid growth of net income generated by CFSG. Net Income As a result of foregoing factors, our net income decreased by 19.8% from RMB124.7 million in 2012 to RMB100.0 million in 2013. - 73 - Net Income Attributable to the Noncontrolling Interests We recorded RMB4.3 million in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2013. In comparison, we recorded a RMB5.8 million net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2012. The increase was primarily due to certain noncontrolling interest holding entities generated profit in 2013. Net Income Attributable to the Company’s Shareholders As a result of the foregoing, our net income attributable to our shareholders decreased by 26.7% from RMB130.5 million in 2012 to RMB95.6 million in 2013. Inflation Inflation in China has impacted our results of operations. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the consumer price index in China increased by 2.6% and 2.6% and 2.0% in 2012, 2013, and 2014, respectively. Our operating costs and expenses, such as sales agent and employee compensation and office operating expenses, increased significantly partly as a result of inflation in 2013 and 2014. Additionally, because a substantial portion of our assets consists of cash and cash equivalents, high inflation significantly reduced the value and purchasing power of these assets. We are not able to hedge our exposures to higher inflation in China. If high inflation persists in China in the future, our operational results may continue to be significantly affected. Foreign Currency The exchange rate between U.S. dollar and RMB has declined from an average of RMB8.2264 per U.S. dollar in July 2005 to RMB6.1886 per U.S. dollar in December 2014. The fluctuation of the exchange rate between the RMB and U.S. dollar and HK dollar resulted in foreign currency translation gain of RMB6.0 million (US$1.0 million) in 2014, when we translated our financial assets from U.S. dollar and HK dollar into RMB. We have not hedged exposures to exchange fluctuations using any hedging instruments. See “Item 3. Key Information — D.Risk Factors — Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment.” and “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk.” B. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows and Working Capital Our principal sources of liquidity have been cash generated from our operating activities. As of December 31, 2014, we had RMB2.1 billion (US$339.0 million) in cash. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, bank deposits and short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, and have insignificant risk of changes in value related to changes in interest rates. Our principal uses of cash have been to fund acquisitions, developments of online projects including CNpad, Chetong.net, eHuzhu, establishing sales outlets, working capital requirements, automobiles and office equipment purchases, office renovation and rental deposits. Although we consolidate the results of our PRC consolidated affiliated entities, we do not have direct access to their cash and cash equivalents or future earnings. But we can direct the use of their cash through agreements that provide us with effective control of these entities. Moreover, we receive quarterly fees from some of these consolidated affiliated entities in exchange for certain consulting and other services provided by us. See “