Item 1A. Risk Factors This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, as described at page (ii) “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” We believe that the risks described below are the most important factors which may cause our actual results of operations in the future to differ materially from the results set forth in the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, our businesses and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected in the future by other risks or developments that either are not known to us at the present time or are currently immaterial to our business. Such risks could include, but are not necessarily limited to, unexpected changes in government regulations, unexpected adverse changes in local, national or global economic or market conditions and the commencement of litigation against us. 19 Table of Contents Risks Affecting our Business We could incur losses on the loans we make. Loan defaults and the incurrence of losses on loans are inherent risks in our business. The incurrence of loan losses necessitate loan charge-offs and write-downs in the carrying values of a bank’s assets and, therefore, can adversely affect a bank’s results of operations and financial condition. As a result, our results of operations will be directly affected by the volume and timing of loan losses, which for a number of reasons can vary from period to period. The risks of loan losses are exacerbated by economic recessions and downturns, as evidenced by the substantial magnitude of the loan losses which many banks incurred as a result of the economic recession that commenced in 2008 and continued into 2010, or by other events that can lead to local or regional business downturns. Although an economic recovery in the U.S. has begun, unemployment remains high and there continues to be uncertainties about the strength and sustainability of the recovery. If the economic recovery were to remain weak or economic conditions were again to deteriorate, our borrowers may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans and loan charge-offs and asset write-downs could increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If our allowance for loan and lease losses is not adequate to cover actual or estimated future loan losses, our earnings may decline. On a quarterly basis we conduct various analyses to estimate the losses and risks inherent in our loan portfolio. However, this evaluation requires us to make a number of estimates and judgments regarding the financial condition of our borrowers, the fair value of the properties collateralizing the loans we have made to them and economic trends that could affect the ability of borrowers to meet their loan payment obligations to us and our ability to offset or mitigate loan losses by foreclosing and reselling the real properties collateralizing many of those loans. Based on those estimates and judgments, we make determinations, which are necessarily subjective, with respect to the adequacy of our allowance for loan and lease losses, or ALLL, and the extent to which it is necessary to increase our ALLL by making additional provisions for loan and lease losses through a charge to income. Inaccurate management assumptions, deterioration of economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require us to increase our ALLL. In addition, our regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our loan portfolio and the adequacy of our ALLL and may require adjustments based on judgments different than those of management. Further, if actual charge-offs in future periods exceed the amounts allocated to the ALLL, we may need additional provision for loan losses to restore the adequacy of our ALLL. If we are required to materially increase our level of ALLL for any reason, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Adverse changes in economic conditions in Southern California could disproportionately harm us. The substantial majority of our clients and the properties securing a large proportion of the loans we have made and will continue to make are located in Southern California, where foreclosure rates and unemployment have remained high relative to most other regions of the country. A downturn in economic conditions, or even the continued weakness of the economic recovery in California, or the occurrence of natural disasters, such as earthquakes or fires, which are more common in Southern California than in other parts of the country, could harm our business by: • reducing loan demand which, in turn, would lead to reductions in our net interest margins and net interest income; • adversely affecting the financial capability of borrowers to meet their loan obligations to us, which could result in increases in loan losses and require us to make additional provisions for possible loan losses, thereby adversely affecting our operating results or causing us to incur losses in the future; and • causing reductions in real property values that, due to our reliance on real properties to collateralize many of our loans, could make it more difficult for us to prevent losses from being incurred on nonperforming loans through the foreclosure and sale of those real properties. 20 Table of Contents Adverse changes in economic and market conditions, and changes in government regulations and government monetary policies could materially and negatively affect our business and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are directly affected by factors such as political, economic and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in government monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. Deterioration in economic conditions, whether caused by global, national, regional or local concerns or problems, or a further downgrade in the United States debt rating, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects: • a deterioration in the credit quality of our banking clients; • an increase in loan delinquencies and losses; • an increase in problem assets and foreclosures; • declines in the values of real properties collateralizing the loans we make; • the need to increase our ALLL; • fluctuations in the value of, or impairment losses which may be incurred with respect to, FFB’s investment securities; • decreases in the demand for our products and services; • increases in competition for low cost or non-interest bearing deposits; and • decreases in the investment management and advisory fees we generate. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Income and cash flows from our banking operations depend to a great extent on the difference or “spread” between the interest we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board, and competition from other banks and financial institutions. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence the origination and market value of and our yields on loans and investment securities and the interest we pay on deposits and on our borrowings. If we are unable to adjust our interest rates on loans and deposits on a timely basis in response to such changes in economic conditions or monetary policies, our earnings could be adversely affected. In addition, if the rates of interest we pay on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities increase faster than we are able to increase the rates of interest we charge on loans or the yields we realize on investments and other interest-earning assets, our net interest income and, therefore, our earnings will decrease. Rising interest rates also generally result in a reduction in loan originations, declines in loan repayment rates and reductions in the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations, which could result in increased loan defaults and charge-offs and could require increases to our ALLL. Additionally, we could be prevented from increasing the interest rates we charge on loans or from reducing the interest rates we offer on deposits due to price competition from other banks and financial institutions with which we compete. Conversely, in a declining interest rate environment, our earnings could be adversely affected if the interest rates we are able to charge on loans or other investments decline more quickly than those we pay on deposits and borrowings. Residential real estate loans represent a high percentage of the loans we make, making our results of operations vulnerable to downturns in the real estate market. At December 31, 2013, loans secured by multifamily and single family residences represented 70% of FFB’s outstanding loans. The repayment of residential real estate loans is highly dependent on the market values of the real properties that collateralize these loans and on the ability of the borrowers to meet their loan repayment obligations to us, which can be adversely affected by economic downturns that lead to increases in unemployment, or by rising interest rates which can increase the amount of the interest borrowers are required to pay on their loans. As a result, our operating results are more vulnerable to adverse changes in the real estate market than other financial institutions with more diversified loan portfolios and we could incur losses in the event of changes in economic conditions that disproportionately affect the real estate markets. 21 Table of Contents Liquidity risk could adversely affect our ability to fund operations and hurt our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our banking business, as we use cash to make loans and purchase investment securities and other interest-earning assets and to fund deposit withdrawals that occur in the ordinary course of our business. Our principal sources of liquidity include earnings, deposits, Federal Home Loan Bank (or FHLB) borrowings, sales of loans or investment securities held for sale, and repayments by clients of loans we have made to them, and capital contributions that we may make to FFB with proceeds from sales of our common stock or from borrowings that we may incur. If the ability to obtain funds from these sources becomes limited or the costs of those funds increase, whether due to factors that affect us specifically, including our financial performance, or due to factors that affect the financial services industry in general, including weakening economic conditions or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, then our ability to grow our banking and investment advisory and wealth management businesses would be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our 6 largest deposit clients account for 36% of our total deposits. As of December 31, 2013, our 6 largest bank depositors accounted for, in the aggregate, 36% of our total deposits. As a result, a material decrease in the volume of those deposits by a relatively small number of our depositors could reduce our liquidity, in which event it could became necessary for us to replace those deposits with higher-cost deposits, lower-yielding securities or FHLB borrowings, which would adversely affect our net interest income and, therefore, our results of operations. Although we plan to grow our business by acquiring other banks, there is no assurance that we will succeed in doing so. One of the key elements of our business plan is to grow our banking franchise and increase our market share, and for that reason, we intend to take advantage of opportunities to acquire other banks. However, there is no assurance that we will succeed in doing so. Our ability to execute on our strategy to acquire other banks may require us to raise additional capital and to increase FFB’s capital position to support the growth of our banking franchise, and will also depend on market conditions, over which we have no control. Moreover, any bank acquisitions will require the approval of our bank regulators and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such approvals on acceptable terms, if at all. Expansion of our banking franchise may not increase our profitability and may adversely affect our future operating results. Since we commenced our banking business in October 2007, we have grown our banking franchise by establishing three new wealth management offices in Southern California and one in Las Vegas, Nevada and acquiring two new offices in Palm Desert and El Centro, California as part of our acquisition of Desert Commercial Bank, or DCB. We plan to continue to grow our banking franchise both organically and through potential acquisitions of other banks. However, the implementation of our growth strategy will pose a number of risks, including: • the risk that any newly established wealth management offices will not generate revenues in amounts sufficient to cover the start-up costs of those offices, which would reduce our income or possibly cause us to incur operating losses; • the risk that any bank acquisitions we might consummate in the future will prove not to be accretive to or may reduce our earnings if we do not realize anticipated cost savings or if we incur unanticipated costs in integrating the acquired banks into our operations or if a substantial number of the clients of the acquired banks move their banking business to our competitors; • the risk that such expansion efforts will divert management time and effort from our existing banking operations, which could adversely affect our future financial performance; and • the risk that the additional capital which we may need to support our growth or the issuance of shares in any bank acquisitions will be dilutive of the share ownership of our existing shareholders. 22 Table of Contents We recently obtained a $7.5 million five year term loan that is secured by a pledge of all of FFB’s shares, which could have a material adverse effect on our business if we are not able to meet certain financial covenants or repay the loan. In April 2013, we entered into a five year term loan agreement pursuant to which we obtained $7.5 million of funds from another bank. We are using the proceeds of the loan to fund the growth of our businesses, which includes the contribution of equity to FFB. In order to obtain that loan, however, we were required to pledge all of the shares of FFB stock to the bank lender as security for our payment and other obligations under that loan agreement. Additionally, the loan agreement contains a number of financial and other covenants which we are required to meet over the five year term of the loan. As a result, such borrowings may make us more vulnerable to general economic downturns and competitive pressures, which could cause us to fail to meet one or more of those financial covenants. If we were unable to meet any of those covenants, we could be required to repay the loan sooner than its maturity date in May 2018. If we are unable to repay the loan when due, whether at maturity or earlier, the lender would have the right to sell our FFB shares to recover the amounts that are due it by us under the loan agreement. Since the stock of FFB comprises one of our most important assets on which our success is dependent, an inability on our part to repay the loan would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects and cause us to incur significant losses. See the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Term Loan” for additional information about this loan. We face intense competition from other banks and financial institutions and other wealth and investment management firms that could hurt our business. We conduct our business operations primarily in Southern California, where the banking business is highly competitive and is dominated by large multi-state and in-state banks with operations and offices covering wide geographic areas. We also compete with other financial service businesses, including investment advisory and wealth management firms, mutual fund companies, and securities brokerage and investment banking firms that offer competitive banking and financial products and services as well as products and services that we do not offer. Larger banks and many of those other financial service organizations have greater financial and marketing resources that enable them to conduct extensive advertising campaigns and to shift resources to regions or activities of greater potential profitability. They also have substantially more capital and higher lending limits, which enable them to attract larger clients and offer financial products and services that we are unable to offer, putting us at a disadvantage in competing with them for loans and deposits and investment management clients. If we are unable to compete effectively with those banking or other financial services businesses, we could find it more difficult to attract new and retain existing clients and our net interest margins, net interest income and investment management advisory fees could decline, which would adversely affect our results of operations and could cause us to incur losses in the future. In addition, our ability to successfully attract and retain investment advisory and wealth management clients is dependent on our ability to compete with competitors’ investment products, level of investment performance, client services and marketing and distribution capabilities. If we are not successful in attracting new and retaining existing clients, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The loss of key personnel or inability to attract additional personnel could hurt our future financial performance. We currently depend heavily on the contributions and services provided by Rick Keller, our Executive Chairman, Scott Kavanaugh, Chief Executive Officer of FFI and FFB, John Hakopian, President of FFA, Dave Rahn, President of FFB and John Michel, Chief Financial Officer of FFI, FFB and FFA, as well as a number of other key management personnel. Our future success also will depend, in part, on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified relationship managers, private banking officers and investment managers. Competition for such personnel is intense and we may not succeed in retaining our existing personnel or attracting additional personnel we will need to continue to grow our business. If we are unable to continue to retain the services of any of our existing executive management personnel, or attract and retain qualified relationship managers, private banking officers and investment managers, our ability to retain existing clients or attract new clients could be adversely affected and our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be significantly harmed. 23 Table of Contents Banking laws and government regulations may adversely affect our operations, restrict our growth or increase our operating costs. We are also subject to extensive supervision and regulation by federal and California state bank regulatory agencies. The primary objective of these agencies is to protect bank depositors and not shareholders, whose respective interests often differ. These regulatory agencies have the legal authority to impose restrictions which they believe are needed to protect depositors, even if those restrictions would adversely affect the ability of a banking institution to expand its business, restrict its ability to pay cash dividends, cause its costs of doing business to increase, or hinder its ability to compete with less regulated financial services companies. We are also subject to numerous laws and government regulations that are applicable to banks and other financial institutions, including: Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations. We are required to comply with various consumer protection laws, including the Community Reinvestment Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act and other fair lending laws and regulations impose nondiscriminatory lending requirements on financial institutions. Bank Secrecy Act and other Anti-Money Laundering Laws and Regulations. As a financial institution, we are required by the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 and other anti-money laundering laws and regulations, to institute and maintain an effective anti-money laundering program and file suspicious activity and currency transaction reports as appropriate. We are also subject to increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. If the policies, procedures or systems which we have adopted to comply with these laws and regulations are found by any regulatory or other government agencies to be deficient or we fail to comply with any of these banking laws or regulations, we would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions, which may lead to the imposition of restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or to proceed with certain aspects of our business plan, including our acquisition plans. Additionally, a failure to maintain and implement adequate programs to combat money laundering and terrorist financing could also have serious reputational consequences for us. Due, moreover, to the complex and technical nature of many of these laws and government regulations, inadvertent violations may and sometimes do occur. In such an event, we would be required to correct or implement measures to prevent a recurrence of such violations, which could increase our operating costs. If more serious violations were to occur, the regulatory agencies could limit our activities or growth, fine us, or ultimately put FFB out of business if it was to encounter severe liquidity problems or a significant erosion of capital below the minimum amounts required under applicable bank regulations. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. The enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the new capital rules pose uncertainties for our business and are likely to increase our costs of doing business in the future. On July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, into law. Changes made by the Dodd-Frank Act include, among others: (i) the establishment of new requirements on banking, derivative and investment activities, including modified capital requirements, (ii) the repeal of the prohibition on the payment of interest on business demand deposit accounts, (iii) the imposition of limitations on debit card interchange fees, (iv) the promulgation of enhanced financial institution safety and soundness regulations, (v) increases in assessment fees and deposit insurance coverage, and (vi) the establishment of new regulatory bodies, such as the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, or the BCFP. The BCFP has been granted rulemaking authority over several federal consumer financial protection laws and, in some instances, has the authority to examine and supervise and enforce compliance by banks and other financial service organizations with these laws and regulations. Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were made effective immediately; however, much of the Dodd-Frank Act is subject to further rulemaking and/or studies. As a result, we are not able to fully assess the impact that the Dodd-Frank Act will have on us until final rules are adopted and implemented. However, we expect that the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations will increase the costs of doing business for us and other banking institutions. We also expect that the repeal of the prohibition on the payment by banks of interest on business demand deposits will result in increased “price” competition among banks for such deposits, which could increase the costs of funds to us (as well as to other banks) and result in a reduction in our net interest margins and income in the future. 24 Table of Contents In July 2013, the FRB adopted final rules (the “New Capital Rules”) establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking organizations based on capital guidelines adopted by the International Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (the “Basel Committee”), and the FDIC adopted substantially identical rules on an interim basis. The rules not only implement the Basel Committee’s December 2010 framework for strengthening international capital standards, but also certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The New Capital Rules substantially revise and heighten the risk-based capital requirements applicable to U.S. banking organizations, including FFI and FFB, from the current U.S. risk-based capital rules and replace the existing approach used in risk-weighting of a banking organization’s assets with a more risk-sensitive approach. The New Capital Rules will become effective for FFI and FFB on January 1, 2015 (subject in the case of certain of those rules to phase-in periods). These new Capital Rules will increase the amount of capital which both FFI and FFB will have to maintain and it is expected that it will also increase the costs of capital for bank holding companies and banks in the United States. See “Supervision and Regulation—First Foundation Bank—New Basel III Capital Rules” for additional information regarding these new capital requirements. The fair value of our investment securities can fluctuate due to factors outside of our control. As of December 31, 2013, the fair value of our investment securities portfolio was $59.1 million. Factors beyond our control can significantly influence the fair value of securities in our portfolio and can cause potential adverse changes to the fair value of these securities. These factors include, but are not limited to, rating agency actions in respect of the securities, defaults by the issuer or with respect to the underlying securities, changes in market interest rates and continued instability in the capital markets. Any of these factors, among others, could cause other-than-temporary impairments and realized and/or unrealized losses in future periods and declines in other comprehensive income, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. In addition, the process for determining whether impairment of a security is other-than-temporary usually requires complex, subjective judgments about the future financial performance and liquidity of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Premiums for federal deposit insurance have increased and may increase even more. The FDIC uses the Deposit Insurance Fund, or DIF, to cover insured deposits in the event of bank failures, and maintains that Fund by assessing insurance premiums on FDIC-insured banks and other depository institutions. The increase in bank failures during the three years ended December 31, 2010 caused the DIF to fall below the minimum balance required by law, forcing the FDIC to raise the insurance premiums assessed on FDIC-insured banks in order to rebuild the DIF. Depending on the frequency and severity of bank failures in the future, the FDIC may further increase premiums or assessments. In addition, our FDIC insurance premiums will increase as we grow our banking business. Such increases in FDIC insurance premiums would increase our costs of doing business and, therefore, could adversely affect our results of operations and earnings in the future. Technology and marketing costs may negatively impact our future operating results. The financial services industry is constantly undergoing technological changes in the types of products and services provided to clients to enhance client convenience. Our future success will depend upon our ability to address the changing technological needs of our clients and to compete with other financial services organizations which have successfully implemented new technologies. The costs of implementing technological changes, new product development and marketing costs may increase our operating expenses without a commensurate increase in our business or revenues, in which event our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we could suffer an interruption in those systems. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including our internet banking services and data processing systems. Any failure or interruption, or breaches in security, of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our client relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems and, therefore, could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Additionally, interruptions in service and security breaches could lead existing clients to terminate their business relationships with us, could make it more difficult for us to attract new clients and subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possibly financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may bear costs associated with the proliferation of computer theft and cyber-crime. In the ordinary course of our business, we are required to collect, use and hold data concerning our clients. Threats to data security, including unauthorized access and cyber-attacks, rapidly emerge and change, exposing us to additional costs for protection or remediation and competing time constraints to secure our data in accordance with customer expectations and statutory and regulatory requirements. It is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies, as well as against criminals who are intent on committing cyber-crime. Increasing sophistication of cyber-criminals and terrorists make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in security breaches. Patching and other measures to protect existing systems and servers could be inadequate, especially on systems that are being retired. Controls employed by our information technology department and cloud vendors could prove inadequate. We could also experience a breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources. Our systems and those of our third-party vendors may become vulnerable to damage or disruption due to circumstances beyond our or their control, such as from catastrophic events, power anomalies or outages, natural disasters, network failures, and viruses and malware. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs, and reputational damage, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our ability to attract and retain clients and employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. The ability of FFB and FFA to attract and retain clients and key employees could be adversely affected if our reputation is harmed. Any actual or perceived failure to address various issues could cause reputational harm, including a failure to address any of the following types of issues: legal and regulatory requirements; the proper maintenance or protection of the privacy of client and employee financial or other personal information; record keeping; money-laundering; potential conflicts of interest and ethical issues. Moreover, any failure to appropriately address any issues of this nature could give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, and legal risks, which could lead to costly litigation or subject us to enforcement actions, fines, or penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. In addition, our banking, investment advisory and wealth management businesses are dependent on the integrity of our banking personnel and our investment advisory and wealth managers. Lapses in integrity could cause reputational harm to our businesses which could result in the loss of clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 26 Table of Contents We are exposed to risk of environmental liabilities with respect to real properties that we may acquire. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we acquire, by or in lieu of foreclosure, real properties which collateralize nonperforming loans (often referred to as “Real Estate Owned” or “REO”). As an owner of such properties, we could become subject to environmental liabilities and incur substantial costs for any property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up that may be required due to any environmental contamination that may be found to exist at any of those properties, even if we did not engage in the activities that led to such contamination and those activities took place prior to our ownership of the properties. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties seeking damages for environmental contamination emanating from the site. If we were to become subject to significant environmental liabilities or costs, our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur significant losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and strategies. We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance systems, and internal control and management review processes. However, those systems and review processes and the judgments that accompany their application may not be effective and, as a result, we may not anticipate every economic and financial outcome in all market environments or the specifics and timing of such outcomes, particularly in the event of the kinds of dislocations in market conditions experienced over the last several years, which highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. If those systems and review processes prove to be ineffective in identifying and managing risks, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our investment advisory and wealth management business may be negatively impacted by changes in economic and market conditions. Our investment advisory and wealth management businesses may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions because the performance of those businesses is directly affected by conditions in the financial and securities markets. The financial markets and businesses operating in the securities industry are highly volatile (meaning that performance results can vary greatly within short periods of time) and are directly affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and general trends in business and finance, and by the threat, as well as the occurrence of global conflicts, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that broad market performance will be favorable in the future. Declines in the financial markets or a lack of sustained growth may result in a decline in the performance of our investment advisory and wealth management business and may adversely affect the market value and performance of the investment securities that we manage, which could lead to reductions in our investment management and advisory fees, because they are based primarily on the market value of the securities we manage and could lead some of our clients to reduce their assets under management by us. If any of these events occur, the financial performance of our investment advisory and wealth management business could be materially and adversely affected. The investment management contracts we have with our clients are terminable without cause and on relatively short notice by our clients, which makes us vulnerable to short term declines in the performance of the securities under our management. Like most other companies with an investment and wealth management business, the investment and wealth management contracts we have with our clients are typically terminable by the client without cause upon less than 30 days’ notice. As a result, even short term declines in the performance of the securities we manage, which can result from factors outside our control such as adverse changes in market or economic condition or the poor performance of some of the investments we have recommended to our clients, could lead some of our clients to move assets under our management to other asset classes such as broad index funds or treasury securities, or to investment advisors which have investment product offerings or investment strategies different than ours. Therefore, our operating results are heavily dependent on the financial performance of our investment portfolios and the investment strategies we employ in our investment advisory businesses and even short-term declines in the performance of the investment portfolios we manage for our clients, whatever the cause, could result in a decline in assets under management and a corresponding decline in investment management fees, which would adversely affect our results of operations. 27 Table of Contents The market for investment managers is extremely competitive and the loss of a key investment manager to a competitor could adversely affect our investment advisory and wealth management business. We believe that investment performance is one of the most important factors that affect the amount of assets under our management. As a result, we rely heavily on our investment managers to produce attractive investment returns for our clients. However, the market for investment managers is extremely competitive and is increasingly characterized by frequent movement of investment managers among different firms. In addition, our individual investment managers often have regular direct contact with particular clients, which can lead to a strong client relationship based on the client’s trust in that individual manager. As a result, the loss of a key investment manager to a competitor could jeopardize our relationships with some of our clients and lead to the loss of client accounts. Losses of such accounts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. FFA’s business is highly regulated, and the regulators have the ability to limit or restrict our activities and impose fines or other sanctions on FFA’s business. FFA is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under the Investment Advisers Act and its business is highly regulated. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on registered investment advisers, including fiduciary, record keeping, operational and disclosure obligations. Moreover, the Investment Advisers Act grants broad administrative powers to regulatory agencies such as the SEC. If the SEC or other government agencies believe that FFA has failed to comply with applicable laws or regulations, these agencies have the power to impose fines, suspensions of individual employees or other sanctions, which could include revocation of FFA’s registration under the Investment Advisers Act. Changes in legal, regulatory, accounting, tax and compliance requirements also could adversely affect FFA’s operations and financial results, by, among other things, increasing its operating expenses and placing restraints on the marketing of certain investment products. Like other investment management companies, FFA also faces the risks of lawsuits by clients. The outcome of regulatory proceedings and lawsuits is uncertain and difficult to predict. An adverse resolution of any regulatory proceeding or lawsuit against FFA could result in substantial costs or reputational harm to FFA and, therefore, could have an adverse effect on the ability of FFA to retain key relationship and wealth managers and existing clients or attract new clients, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We are also subject to the provisions and regulations of ERISA to the extent that we act as a “fiduciary” under ERISA with respect to certain of our clients. ERISA and the applicable provisions of the federal tax laws, impose a number of duties on persons who are fiduciaries under ERISA and prohibit certain transactions involving the assets of each ERISA plan which is a client, as well as certain transactions by the fiduciaries (and certain other related parties) to such plans. We may be adversely affected by the soundness of other financial institutions or and brokerage firms. In addition, FFA does not provide custodial services for its clients. Instead, client investment accounts are maintained under custodial arrangements with large, well established brokerage firms, either directly or through FFB. As a result, the performance of, or even rumors or questions about, one or more of the brokerage firms that serve as custodian on our accounts could adversely affect the confidence of FFA’s customers in the services provided by those brokerage firms or otherwise adversely impact their custodial holdings. Such an occurrence could negatively impact the ability of FFA to attract or retain its customer relationships and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 28 Table of Contents Risks related to Ownership of our Common Stock We do not plan to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Additionally, our ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory and other restrictions. In order to implement our growth strategy, it is our policy to retain cash for our businesses and, as a result, we have never paid any cash dividends and we have no plans to pay cash dividends at least for the foreseeable future. Additionally, our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders is restricted by California and federal law. Moreover, the term loan agreement we entered into in April 2013 prohibits us from paying cash dividends to our shareholders without the lender’s prior written consent. See the section entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition—Term Loan” for additional information about this loan. Our ability to pay dividends is also dependent on the payment to us of dividends by FFB and FFA, which are subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions as well. FFA’s ability to pay cash dividends to us is restricted under California law. FFB’s ability to pay dividends to us is limited by various banking statutes and regulations. Moreover, based on their assessment of the financial condition of FFB or other factors, the FDIC or the DBO could find that the payment of cash dividends to us by FFB would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice and, therefore, prohibit FFB from paying cash dividends to us, even if FFB meets the statutory requirements to do so. See the section entitled “Dividend Policy” for additional information about our dividend policy. No public market presently exists, and there is no assurance that an active trading market will develop, for our common stock. Our common stock is not listed and does not trade on any securities exchange or in the over-the-counter market. As a result, the ability of our shareholders to sell, and for other investors to purchase, shares of our common stock is quite limited. Consequently, investors and our existing shareholders may be unable to liquidate their investments in our shares if the need or desire to do so arises and, as a result, may be required to hold their shares indefinitely. If we are able to list our shares on NASDAQ or another national securities exchange, there is no assurance that an active trading market will develop for our shares that would enable our shareholders to readily sell their shares if or when the need or desire to do so arises. Moreover, if the trading market for our common stock ultimately proves to be limited, even after our shares are listed on an exchange, then, the limited trading market may cause fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock to be exaggerated, leading to price volatility in excess of that which would occur in a more active trading market for our common stock. If a market does develop for our common stock, market prices and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. Even if a market develops for our common stock, the market prices of our common stock may be volatile and the trading volume may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that, if a market does develop for our common stock, the market prices of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the prices of ours shares or result in fluctuations in those prices or in trading volume of our common stock could include the following, many of which are outside of our control: • quarterly variations in our operating results or the quality of our earnings or assets; • operating results that vary from the expectations of management, securities analysts, and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance; • the operating and securities price performance of other companies that investors believe are comparable to us; • our implementation of our growth strategy and performance of acquired businesses that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • the adoption of new more costly government regulations that are applicable to our businesses or the imposition of regulatory restrictions on us; • our past and future dividend practices; 29 Table of Contents • future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; • changes in global financial markets and global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates, stock, commodity or real estate valuations or volatility; and • announcements of strategic developments, material acquisitions and other material events in our business or in the businesses of our competitors. Share ownership by our officers and directors and certain agreements make it more difficult for third parties to acquire us or effectuate a change of control that might be viewed favorably by other shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors owned, in the aggregate, 34% of our outstanding shares. As a result, if the officers and directors were to oppose a third party’s acquisition proposal for, or a change in control of, FFI, the officers and directors may have sufficient voting power to be able to block or at least delay such an acquisition or change in control from taking place, even if other shareholders would support such a sale or change of control. In addition, a number of FFI’s officers have change of control agreements which could increase the costs and, therefore, lessen the attractiveness of an acquisition of FFI to a potential acquiring party. See the section entitled “Executive Compensation—Change of Control Agreements” for additional information about the change of control arrangements we have with certain executive officers. Our corporate governance documents, and certain corporate and banking laws applicable to us, could make a takeover attempt, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult. Our Board of Directors, or Board, has the power, under our articles of incorporation, to issue additional shares of common stock and create and authorize the sale of one or more series of preferred stock without having to obtain shareholder approval for such action. As a result, our Board could authorize the issuance of shares of a series of preferred stock to implement a shareholders rights plan (often referred to as a “poison pill”) or could sell and issue preferred shares with special voting rights or conversion rights, which could deter or delay attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, and attempts of third parties either to engage in proxy contests or to acquire control of FFI. In addition, our charter documents: • enable our Board to fill vacant directorships except for vacancies created by the removal of a director; • enable our Board to amend our bylaws without shareholder approval subject to certain exceptions; and • require compliance with an advance notice procedure with regard to business to be brought by a shareholder before an annual or special meeting of shareholders and with regard to the nomination by shareholders of candidates for election as directors. Furthermore, federal and state banking laws and regulations applicable to us require prior regulatory application and approval of certain transactions involving control of FFI or of FFB. These provisions may discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control, including under circumstances in which our shareholders might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation permit our Board of Directors to authorize and sell shares of preferred stock on terms that could discourage a third party from making a takeover that may be beneficial to our shareholders Our Board of Directors has the power, under our articles of incorporation, to create and authorize the sale of one or more series of preferred stock without having to obtain shareholder approval for such action. As a result, the Board could authorize the issuance of shares of a series of preferred stock to implement a shareholders rights plan (often referred to as a “poison pill”) or could sell and issue preferred shares with special voting rights or conversion rights, which could deter or delay attempts by our shareholders to remove or replace management, and attempts of third parties either to engage in proxy contests or to acquire control of the Company. 30 Table of Contents We may sell additional shares of common stock in the future which could result in dilution to our shareholders. A total of approximately 12 million authorized but unissued shares of our common stock are available for future sale and issuance by action of our board of directors. Accordingly, our shareholders could suffer dilution in their investment in our common stock and their percentage share ownership if we were to sell additional shares in the future. We have elected under the JOBS Act to use an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We are electing to take advantage of the extended transition period afforded by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act, for the implementation of new or revised accounting standards. As a result, we will not be required to comply with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until those standards apply to private companies or we cease to be an “emerging growth” company as defined in the JOBS Act. As a result of this election, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of companies that comply with public company effective dates. The reduced disclosures and relief from certain other significant disclosure requirements that are available to emerging growth companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and we intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that apply to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies.” These exemptions include the following: • not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”); • less extensive disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and • exemptions from the requirements to hold nonbinding advisory votes on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. In addition, even if we comply with the greater obligations of public companies that are not emerging growth companies, we may avail ourselves of the reduced requirements applicable to emerging growth companies from time to time in the future, so long as we are an emerging growth company. We will remain an emerging growth company for up to five years, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if, before the end of such five years, we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC (which depends on, among other things, having a market value of common stock held by non-affiliates in excess of $700 million). If a trading market were to develop for our shares in the future, then, because we will be relying on one or more of these exemptions, investors and securities analysts may find it more difficult to evaluate our common stock, and some investors may find our common stock less attractive, and, as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock, which could result in a reductions and greater volatility in the prices of our common stock. 31 Table of Contents Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company may elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, but any such election to opt out will be irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make our financial statements not comparable with those of other public companies which are neither emerging growth companies nor emerging growth companies that have opted out of using the extended transition period. Pursuant to the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for so long as we are an “emerging growth company.” Under existing SEC rules and regulations, we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control over financial reporting on a quarterly basis and management will be required to assess the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and our internal control over financial reporting annually. However, under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act until we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” Our internal control over financial reporting does not currently meet the standards required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock prices. We have not been required to maintain internal control over financial reporting in a manner that meets the standards that are made applicable to publicly traded companies under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Once we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation, which could significantly increase our operating expenses. If we identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future, or if we cannot comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or attest that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately and timely. As a result, investors and clients may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports; our liquidity, access to capital markets, and perceptions of our creditworthiness could be adversely affected; and the market price of our common stock could decline. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the stock exchange on which our securities are listed, SEC, the Federal Reserve or the FDIC, or other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may also encounter problems or delays in implementing any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or in completing the implementation of any requested improvements that may be needed for this purpose. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial information which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 32 Table of Contents 