Item 1A. Risk Factors Sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s public comments from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting our operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. The following discussion identifies some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations. Risks Resulting from the Recently Completed Distribution A. H. Belo has no operating history as a separate public company and may be unable to operate profitably as a stand-alone company. A. H. Belo has no operating history as a separate public company. Historically, because the newspaper and the television businesses that comprised Belo have been under one ultimate parent, they have been able to rely to some degree on the earnings, assets, and cash flow of each other for capital requirements. As a result of the distribution, A. H. Belo now relies only on the newspaper business and related businesses for such requirements. A. H. Belo cannot assure you that, as a separate public company, operating results will continue at historical levels, or that the Company will be profitable. Additionally, A. H. Belo has relied on Belo for various financial, administrative, and managerial services in conducting its operations. Following the distribution, A. H. Belo maintains its own credit and banking relationships and performs its own financial and investor relations functions. Although A. H. Belo employs certain key former employees of Belo following the distribution, there can be no assurance that A. H. Belo will be able to successfully put in place, or thereafter maintain, the financial functions, administration, and management necessary to operate as a separate company or that A. H. Belo will not incur additional costs operating as a separate public company. For example, prior to the distribution, A. H. Belo, as part of Belo’s business, was able to use Belo’s size to procure products and services on favorable terms. A. H. Belo could experience some increased costs as a result of the absence of such economies of scale. Any such additional or increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. A. H. Belo’s historical financial information may not be indicative of our future results as a separate public company. The historical financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not reflect what A. H. Belo’s results of operations, financial position, and cash flows would have been had it been a separate public company during the periods presented, or be indicative of what its results of operations, financial position, and cash flows may be in the future as a separate public company. A. H. Belo’s historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided by Belo, and these allocated costs may be different from the actual costs A. H. Belo will incur for these services in the future as a separate public company, including with respect to actual services provided to A. H. Belo by Belo under a services agreement and other agreements. In some instances, the costs incurred for these services as a separate public company may be higher than the share of total Belo expenses allocated to A. H. Belo historically. For additional information about the past financial performance of A. H. Belo’s business and the basis of the presentation of the historical financial statements, see “Item 6. Selected Financial Data,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the Combined Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A. H. Belo may incur increased costs after the distribution or as a result of the distribution that may cause our profitability to decline. A. H. Belo needs to replicate certain systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which it no longer has access after the distribution from Belo. In addition, there may be an adverse operational effect on A. H. Belo’s business as a result of the significant time A. H. Belo’s management and other employees and internal resources will need to dedicate to building these capabilities during the first few years following the distribution that otherwise would be available for other business initiatives and opportunities. A. H. Belo may incur capital and other costs associated with developing and implementing its own support functions in these areas. These costs may exceed the costs A. H. Belo will pay to Belo during the transition period. 5 Table of Contents A. H. Belo may incur increased expenses if the services agreement with Belo is terminated. In connection with the distribution, A. H. Belo entered into a services agreement with Belo. This agreement provides that A. H. Belo and Belo will furnish each other services in such areas as employee benefits administration, risk management, claims administration and reporting, tax, payroll, internal audit, and other areas where A. H. Belo and Belo may need assistance and support following the distribution. Depending on the particular service being provided, the agreement extends for up to two years after the distribution, but may be terminated earlier under certain circumstances, including a default. If the agreement is terminated, A. H. Belo may be required to obtain such services from a third party. This could be more expensive than the fees that A. H. Belo is required to pay under the services agreement. A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers have significant combined voting power and significant influence over our management and affairs. Our directors and executive officers, hold 58.5 percent of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock as of March 15, 2008. A. H. Belo’s Series A common stock has one vote per share and Series B common stock has ten votes per share. Generally, except for certain extraordinary corporate transactions, all matters to be voted on by A. H. Belo’s shareholders must be approved by a majority of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Certain extraordinary corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our property and assets, or a dissolution, the alteration, amendment, or repeal of A. H. Belo’s bylaws by shareholders, and certain amendments to A. H. Belo’s certificate of incorporation, require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Accordingly, A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers will have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. This ownership may limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, A. H. Belo may take actions that you, or even the majority of shareholders, do not view as beneficial. Certain members of management, directors, and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest. The management and directors of A. H. Belo and Belo own both A. H. Belo common stock and Belo common stock. Robert W. Decherd serves as the non-executive Chairman of the Board of Belo and as Chairman of the Board, president and Chief Executive Officer of A. H. Belo. Mr. Decherd and Dealey D. Herndon, his sister, serve as directors of A. H. Belo and Belo. James M. Moroney III, executive vice president of A. H. Belo and the Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of The Dallas Morning News, is their second cousin. Mr. Moroney also serves as a director of Belo. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when A. H. Belo’s and Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for A. H. Belo and Belo. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between A. H. Belo and Belo regarding the terms of the agreements governing the distribution and the relationship between A. H. Belo and Belo thereafter. These agreements include, among others, the separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, the employee matters agreement, the services agreement, and any other agreements between the parties or their affiliates. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise out of any commercial arrangements that A. H. Belo and Belo may enter into in the future. In addition, A. H. Belo and Belo will compete with each other in Dallas/Fort Worth, where each company owns significant properties. Risks Relating to A. H. Belo’s Business If A. H. Belo is unable to respond to evolving industry trends and changes in technology, its business may not be able to compete effectively. Print circulation and readership of A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry overall, are subject to competition and, in particular, are being affected by the preferences of some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news in new media formats and from sources other than traditional newspapers, and by the proliferation of these new media formats and sources. Information delivery and programming alternatives such as the Internet, cable, direct satellite-to-home services, pay-per-view, and home video and entertainment systems have fractionalized newspaper readership. Over the past decade, the Internet, cable television programming services, and other emerging media distribution platforms have captured increasing market share, while the aggregate print circulation of the major newspapers has declined. 6 Table of Contents Decreases in advertising spending, resulting from an economic downturn, business combinations, natural disasters, war, terrorism, or other factors specific to the communities served by the Company, could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, A. H. Belo’s revenues are subject to seasonal, cyclical, and other fluctuations that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 81 percent or more of A. H. Belo’s revenues for each of the last three fiscal years were generated from the sale of advertising appearing in its newspapers. Advertisers generally reduce their advertising spending during economic downturns, so a recession or economic downturn could have an adverse effect on A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. A. H. Belo’s advertising revenues depend upon a variety of other factors specific to the communities served by the Company. Changes in those factors could affect advertising revenues. These factors include, among others, the size and demographic characteristics of the local population, the concentration of retail stores, and local economic conditions in general. A. H. Belo’s revenues and results of operations are subject to seasonal, cyclical, and other fluctuations that are expected to continue. Seasonal and cyclical factors that affect A. H. Belo’s revenues and results of operations may be beyond A. H. Belo’s control, including changes in the pricing policies of competitors, the hiring and retention of key personnel, wage and cost pressures, changes in newsprint prices, and general economic factors. Fluctuations in revenues and results of operations may cause A. H. Belo’s stock price to be volatile. A. H. Belo’s businesses operate in highly competitive markets, such as Dallas/Fort Worth, and our ability to maintain market share and generate revenues depends on how effectively the Company competes with existing and new competition. Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets. Our newspapers compete for audiences and advertising revenue with other newspapers as well as with the Internet, magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, radio, direct mail, and yellow pages. A. H. Belo and Belo will compete with each other in Dallas/Fort Worth where each company owns significant properties. Some of A. H. Belo’s current and potential competitors have greater financial and other resources available to them. A. H. Belo’s newspaper publications generate significant percentages of their advertising revenues from limited numbers of sources. In recent years, Web sites dedicated to automotive, employment, real estate advertising, and general classified advertising have become significant competitors of A. H. Belo’s newspapers and Web sites. As a result, even in the absence of a recession or economic downturn, technological, industry, and other changes specifically affecting these advertising sources could reduce advertising revenues and adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. A. H. Belo’s revenues primarily consist of advertising and paid circulation. Competition for advertising expenditures and paid circulation comes from local, regional, and national newspapers (including free daily newspapers), magazines, broadcast, cable and satellite television, radio, direct mail, yellow pages, the Internet, outdoor billboards, and other media. The National Do Not Call Registry has affected the way newspapers solicit home-delivery circulation, particularly for larger newspapers that historically have relied on telemarketing. Competition for newspaper advertising revenue is based largely upon advertiser results, advertising rates, readership, demographics, and circulation levels. Competition for circulation is based largely upon the content of the newspaper, its price, editorial quality, customer service, and other sources of news and information. Our local and regional competitors are community newspapers that are typically unique to each market, but the Company has competitors for advertising revenues that are larger and have greater financial and distribution resources. Circulation revenues and our ability to achieve price increases for our print products may be affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in our various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among certain demographics. A. H. Belo may incur higher costs competing for advertising dollars and paid circulation, and if the Company is not able to compete effectively for advertising dollars and paid circulation, revenues may continue to decline and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Decreases in circulation may adversely affect A. H. Belo’s circulation and advertising revenues. The table below presents the components of our net operating revenues for the last three years: Percentage Percentage Year ended December 31, (dollars in thousands) 2007 Change 2006 Change 2005 Advertising $ 600,335 (10.9 %) $ 674,140 (1.9 %) $ 687,140 Circulation 112,635 (3.1 %) 116,265 11.0 % 104,790 Other 25,698 (6.0 %) 27,328 (10.1 %) 30,414 Net operating revenues $ 738,668 (9.7 %) $ 817,733 (0.6 %) $ 822,344 As a result of the change in distribution methods at The Dallas Morning News, circulation revenue increased approximately $24,555 in 2006. However, when measured on a comparable basis, circulation revenue actually decreased 1.8 percent in 2006 from 2005. A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry as a whole, are experiencing challenges to maintain and grow print circulation and circulation revenues. A prolonged decline in circulation could affect the rate and volume of advertising revenues. To maintain our circulation base, A. H. Belo may incur additional costs, and may not be able to recover these costs through circulation and advertising revenues. To address declining circulation, the Company may increase spending on marketing designed to retain our existing subscriber base and continue or create niche publications targeted at specific market groups. The Company may also increase marketing efforts to drive traffic to our proprietary Web sites. There are no current plans to materially increase such spending or marketing. A. H. Belo anticipates that readership will become increasingly important now that the Audit Bureau of Circulations has agreed to publish readership statistics and recognize Internet use in addition to print circulation information. The Company believes this is a positive industry development but cannot predict its effect on advertising revenues. A significant increase in the cost of newsprint, or a reduction in the availability of newsprint, could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s publishing business. The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint, which has historically been between approximately 11 percent and 14 percent of revenues. The price of newsprint historically has been volatile. Consolidation in the North American newsprint industry has reduced the number of suppliers and has led to paper mill closures and conversions to other grades of paper, which in turn has decreased overall newsprint capacity and increased the likelihood of future price increases. A. H. Belo currently purchases most of its newsprint through a purchasing consortium of which it is a member. Our inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future or significant increases in newsprint costs could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse results from pending or new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s financial condition and results of operations. From time to time A. H. Belo and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation, governmental proceedings, and investigations. Current matters include those described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings”. Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require A. H. Belo to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents A. H. Belo depends on key personnel and may not be able to operate and grow our business effectively if A. H. Belo loses the services of any of our senior executive officers or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. A. H. Belo depends on the efforts of its senior executive officers. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and A. H. Belo may not be able to retain its key personnel. The Company has not entered into employment agreements with key management personnel and does not have “key person” insurance for any of our senior executive officers or other key personnel. To mitigate this risk, A. H. Belo has adopted a change in control severance plan covering key management personnel that is triggered under certain conditions if a change in control occurs. A. H. Belo’s business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes by our employees. Currently, one of A. H. Belo’s primary newspapers is party to collective bargaining agreements with unions representing approximately 530 of its employees. All of these agreements will expire within approximately four years, unless extended. A. H. Belo cannot assure investors about the results of negotiation of future collective bargaining agreements, whether future collective bargaining agreements will be negotiated without interruptions in our business, or the possible effect of future collective bargaining agreements on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company also cannot assure investors that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could adversely effect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 