Item 1A. Risk FactorsOur business, and an investment in our common stock, involves risks. Summarized below are the risk factors which we believe are material to our business and could negatively affect our operating results, financial condition, capital levels, liquidity and the trading value of our common stock. Other risks factors, not currently known to us, or that we currently deem to be immaterial or unlikely, also could adversely affect our business. In assessing the following risk factors, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors.The current weak economic conditions in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase the credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in the states of Idaho and Oregon. A continuing decline in the economies of the markets in which we operate, and which we consider to be our primary market areas, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In particular, Idaho and Oregon have experienced substantial home price declines and increased foreclosures and have experienced above average unemployment rates. Continued weakness or a further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations:•loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures may increase; •we may increase our allowance for loan losses;•demand for our products and services may decline resulting in a decrease in our total loans or assets; •collateral for loans made may decline further in value, exposing us to increased risk of loss on existing loans, reducing customers’ borrowing power, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with existing loans;•the net worth and liquidity of loan guarantors may decline, impairing their ability to honor commitments to us; and•the amount of our low-cost or noninterest bearing deposits may decrease and the composition of our deposits may be adversely affected. A decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. If we are required to liquidate a significant amount of collateral during a period of reduced real estate values to satisfy the debt, our financial condition and profitability could be adversely affected.A return of recessionary conditions could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations.The ongoing debate in Congress regarding the national debt ceiling and federal budget deficit, and concerns over the United States' credit rating (which was downgraded by Standard & Poor's), the European sovereign debt crisis, the overall weakness in the economy and continued relatively high unemployment in the United States, among other economic indicators, have contributed to increased volatility in the capital markets and diminished expectations for the economy. A return of recessionary conditions and/or continued negative developments in the domestic and international credit markets may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, liquidity, and financial condition.46Table of ContentsFurthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance.Our business strategy includes significant growth plans, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively.We intend to pursue a significant growth strategy for our business. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. If appropriate opportunities present themselves, we expect to engage in selected acquisitions of financial institutions in the future, including FDIC-assisted transactions, or other business growth initiatives or undertakings. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify appropriate opportunities, that we will be able to negotiate or finance such activities or that such activities, if undertaken, will be successful. Our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives. Accordingly, the failure to identify and retain such personnel would place significant limitations on our ability to successfully execute our growth strategy. In addition, to the extent we expand our lending beyond our current market areas, we could incur additional risk related to those new market areas. We may not be able to expand our market presence in our existing market areas or successfully enter new markets.If we do not successfully execute our acquisition growth plan, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and growth prospects. In addition, if we were to conclude that the value of an acquired business had decreased and that the related goodwill or core deposit intangible had been impaired, that conclusion would result in an impairment charge to us, which would adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we have the executive management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance that growth opportunities will be available or that we will successfully manage our growth. Our strategy of pursuing acquisitions exposes us to financial, execution and operational risks that could adversely affect us. We are pursuing a strategy of supplementing organic growth by acquiring other financial institutions that we believe will help us fulfill our strategic objectives and enhance our earnings. There are risks associated with this strategy, however, including the following:•we may be exposed to potential asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities of the banks, businesses, assets and liabilities we acquire. If these issues or liabilities exceed our estimates, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially negatively affected;•prices at which acquisitions can be made fluctuate with market conditions. We have experienced times during which acquisitions could not be made in specific markets at prices we considered acceptable and expect that we will experience this condition in the future;•our growth initiatives may require us to recruit experienced personnel to assist in such initiatives, which will increase our compensation costs;•our strategic efforts may divert resources or management’s attention from ongoing business operations and may subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny;•the acquisition of other entities generally requires integration of systems, procedures and personnel of the acquired entity into our company to make the transaction economically successful. This integration process is complicated and time consuming and can also be disruptive to the customers of the acquired business. If the integration process is not conducted successfully and with minimal adverse effect on the acquired business and its customers, we may not realize the anticipated economic benefits of particular acquisitions within the expected time frame, and we may lose customers or employees of the acquired business. We may also experience greater than anticipated customer losses even if the integration process is successful; •to finance an acquisition, we may borrow funds, thereby increasing our leverage and diminishing our liquidity, or raise additional capital, which could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; and•we expect our net interest income will increase following our acquisitions, however, we also expect our general and administrative expenses to also increase. Ultimately, we would expect our efficiency ratio to improve; 47Table of Contentshowever, if we are not successful in our integration process, this may not occur, or may occur at a slower rate than originally anticipated, and our acquisitions may not be accretive to earnings in the short or long-term.We have completed two acquisitions during the past four years that enhanced our rate of growth. We may not be able to continue to sustain our past rate of growth or to grow at all in the future. We may engage in additional FDIC-assisted transactions, which could present additional risks to our business.We may have additional opportunities to acquire the assets and liabilities of failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions, however, the bidding process for FDIC-assisted transactions is competitive, and the competition may make it more difficult for us to bid on terms we consider to be acceptable. Many of these competing bidders will have more capital and other resources than Home Federal Bank. In addition, although these FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance to an acquirer to mitigate certain risks, such as sharing exposure to loan losses and providing indemnification against certain liabilities of the failed institution, we are (and would be in future transactions) subject to many of the same risks we would face in acquiring another bank in a negotiated transaction, including risks associated with maintaining customer relationships and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. Further, because these acquisitions are structured in a manner that would not allow us the time and access to information normally associated with preparing for and evaluating a negotiated acquisition, we may face additional risks in FDIC-assisted transactions, including additional strain on management resources, management of problem loans, problems related to integration of personnel and operating systems and impact to our capital resources requiring us to raise additional capital. We cannot give assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with our FDIC-assisted transactions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings may be diminished until we can replace the revenue we expect to derive from the interest income and continued realization of accretable discounts on our acquired loans and invest the additional liquidity from the acquisition of LibertyBank.As a result of the two FDIC-assisted acquisitions that we have made and the asset discount bids associated with each acquisition, we anticipate that a significant portion of our income over the next two to three years will be derived from the interest income and continued realization of accretable discounts on the loans that we purchased in our FDIC-assisted acquisitions and from the FDIC receivable. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized $24.9 million of interest income on covered loans. The accretable discount on the acquired loans will be recognized into interest income over the estimated life of the covered loan portfolio. Furthermore, the discount recorded on the FDIC receivable will be accreted into noninterest income using the level yield method over the estimated life of the loan or pool of loans. During this period, if we are unable to replace our acquired loans and the related accretion with new performing loans or other interest earning assets at a similar yield due to such reasons as low loan demand or competition from other financial institutions in our markets, our financial condition and earnings, including our net interest rate margin, may be adversely affected. The acquisition of LibertyBank also resulted in a significant increase in cash as a result of the excess of liabilities assumed over assets purchased and the amount of LibertyBank loans retained by the FDIC. We expect that the significant increase in cash balances will result in a decrease in our net interest margin until these additional funds can be invested in loans and securities. This influx of cash and the additional expense burden will keep our earnings below optimal levels until we can generate meaningful loan growth. As a result of the current environment, there is a lack of demand for loans, or a diminished supply of creditworthy lending opportunities, that limits our ability to increase outstanding organic loan balances meeting our investment and asset/liability objectives. Alternative investments are also unattractive as investment securities offer very low yields within management's credit and interest rate risk tolerances. If we are unable to invest this additional liquidity, our earnings may be adversely affected.We are highly dependent on key individuals and a number of the members of executive and senior management have been with the Company for five years or less.Consistent with our policy of focusing on select growth initiatives we are highly dependent on the continued services of a limited number of our executive officers and key management personnel. These individuals have been instrumental in developing and implementing our operating strategy. In addition, since our business is primarily relationship-driven, these individuals have developed extensive customer relationships. The loss of the services of any one of these 48Table of Contentsindividuals could have a material adverse impact on our operations because we have fewer management-level personnel that have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals.We believe we have in place qualified individuals and have provided for an orderly transition. Additional changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and profitability. Moreover, our anticipated growth is expected to place increased demands on our human resources and will require the recruitment of additional middle management personnel. The competition to hire experienced banking professionals is also intense. If we are unable to attract qualified banking professionals, our expansion plans could be delayed or curtailed and our business, financial condition, and profitability may be adversely affected.The price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. In addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the share prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the shares of many companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: •actual or anticipated quarterly fluctuations in our operating results and financial condition; •changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts; •failure to meet analysts’ revenue or earnings estimates; •speculation in the press or investment community; •strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; •actions by institutional shareholders; •fluctuations in the stock price and operating results of our competitors; •general market conditions and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for the financial services industry both domestically and internationally; •proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments; •anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us; or •domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance. The stock market and, in particular, the market for financial institution stocks, has experienced significant volatility in recent years. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be volatile. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate more than usual and cause significant price variations to occur. The trading price of the shares of our common stock and the value of our other securities will depend on many factors, which may change from time to time, including, without limitation, our financial condition, performance, creditworthiness and prospects, future sales of our equity or equity related securities, or other factors. Market volatility during the past couple of years is unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. A significant decline in our stock price could result in substantial losses for individual shareholders and could lead to costly and disruptive securities litigation. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability.Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., The Wall Street Journal prime rate) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan and deposit volume and mix, the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities and the average duration of our mortgage-backed securities portfolio and other interest-earning assets can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume, and overall profitability.49Table of ContentsWe principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively as our interest rate risk modeling techniques and assumptions may not fully predict or capture the impact of actual interest rate changes on our balance sheet or projected operating results. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability.During the last four years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, yields on securities we have purchased, and market rates on the loans we have originated, have been at levels lower than were available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest-earning assets has decreased during the recent low interest rate environment. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has contributed to increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels, while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Federal Reserve has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability.Our increasing emphasis on commercial real estate and commercial business loans may expose us to increased lending risks. Our current business strategy includes the expansion of commercial real estate and commercial business lending. We have been increasing, and intend to continue to increase, our origination of commercial and multifamily real estate loans and commercial business loans in the future. This type of lending activity, while potentially more profitable than single-family residential lending, is generally more sensitive to regional and local economic conditions, making loss levels more difficult to predict. The credit risk related to these types of loans also is considered to be greater than the risk related to one-to-four family residential loans because the repayment of commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans typically is dependent on the successful operation and income stream of the borrowers’ business and the real estate securing the loans as collateral, which can be significantly affected by economic conditions. Several of our borrowers have more than one commercial real estate loan outstanding with us and commercial real estate loans tend to have larger balances than one-to-four family residential loans. In addition, many of our commercial and multifamily real estate loans are not fully amortizing and contain large balloon payments upon maturity. Such balloon payments may require the borrower to either sell or refinance the underlying property in order to make the payment, which may increase the risk of default or non-payment. This risk is exacerbated in the current economic environment. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan. Finally, if we foreclose on a commercial real estate loan, our holding period for the collateral, if any, typically is longer than for a one-to-four family residential mortgage loan because there are fewer potential purchasers of the collateral. Since we plan to continue to increase our originations of these loans, it may be necessary to increase the level of our allowance for loan losses due to the increased risk characteristics associated with these types of loans. Any increase to our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect our earnings. In addition, these loans generally carry larger balances to single borrowers or related groups of borrowers than one-to-four family loans. Any delinquent payments or the failure to repay these loans would hurt our earnings. A large percentage of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate, in particular commercial real estate. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets or other segments of our loan portfolio could lead to additional losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As a result of increased levels of residential and commercial loan delinquencies and declining real estate values, which reduce the customer’s borrowing power and the value of the collateral securing the loan, we have experienced increasing levels of charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. Continued increases in delinquency levels or continued declines in real estate values, which cause our loan-to-value ratios to increase, could result in additional charge-offs and provisions for loan losses. This could have a material negative effect on our business and results of operations.Many of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated upon purchase a first mortgage with an 80% loan-to-value ratio or because 50Table of Contentsof the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and, therefore, may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses.Our loan portfolio has a concentration of loans secured by commercial real estate, which is primarily secured by nonowner-occupied investment properties. Continued deterioration in the local economy may result in additional losses on loans. Generally, deterioration in the performance and collectability of a loan secured by owner-occupied real estate can be better monitored than a nonowner-occupied real estate loan as we typically do not have the ability to assess the financial performance of tenants who are leasing from borrowers on investment property loans. We regularly review financial information of borrowers on owner-occupied loans whereas we can typically review only vacancy and rent rolls of tenants of borrowers on nonowner-occupied loans.Deterioration in the general economy may further increase vacancies in office, retail and industrial real estate, which may result in decreased cash flow to our borrowers and further declines in value on foreclosed commercial real estate causing additional provisions for loan and REO losses.Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate. We make land purchase, lot development and real estate construction loans to individuals and builders, primarily for the construction of residential properties and, to a lesser extent, commercial and multifamily real estate projects. We will originate these loans whether or not the collateral property underlying the loan is under contract for sale. Residential real estate construction loans include single-family tract construction loans for the construction of entry level residential homes.Construction lending can involve a higher level of risk than other types of lending because funds are advanced partially based upon the value of the finished project, which is uncertain prior to the project’s completion. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs as well as the market value of a completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, our estimates with regard to the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio may vary from actual results. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property or refinance the indebtedness. This risk has been compounded by the current slowdown in both the residential and the commercial real estate markets, which has negatively affected real estate values and the ability of our borrowers to liquidate properties or obtain adequate refinancing. If our estimate of the value of a project at completion proves to be overstated, we may have inadequate security for repayment of the loan and we may incur a loss. In addition, speculative construction loans to a builder are often associated with homes that are not pre-sold, and thus pose a greater potential risk than construction loans to individuals on their personal residences. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. At December 31, 2012, we had $28.7 million or 6.8% of total loans in commercial business loans. Our commercial business loans include leases to finance the purchase of personal property, business equipment and titled vehicles and construction equipment. All of the financing leases included in our portfolio were leases of CELC, the operations of which were assumed by the Bank in the LibertyBank Acquisition, and nearly all of them are covered under a loss share agreement with the FDIC. Repayment of our commercial business loans is often dependent on the cash flows of the borrower, which may be unpredictable, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Commercial business lending involves risks that are different from those associated with residential and commercial real estate lending. Collateral securing commercial loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and fluctuate in value. In addition, in the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect the amounts due from its customers. Accordingly, we make our commercial loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower and secondarily on underlying collateral provided by the borrower.51Table of ContentsOur lease loans entail many of the same types of risks as our commercial business loans. As with commercial business loans, the collateral securing our lease loans may depreciate over time, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value. We rely on the lessee’s continuing financial stability, rather than the value of the leased equipment, for the repayment of all required amounts under lease loans. In the event of a default on a lease loan, it is unlikely that the proceeds from the sale of the leased equipment will be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding unpaid amounts under the terms of the loan.If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings and capital levels could be reduced.Lending money is a substantial part of our business and each loan carries a certain risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms, or that any underlying collateral will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things:•cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed;•the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral, in the case of a collateralized loan;•the duration of the loan;•the character and creditworthiness of a particular borrower; and•changes in economic and industry conditions.We maintain an allowance for loan losses, which we believe is an appropriate reserve to provide for probable losses in our loan portfolio. The allowance is funded by provisions for loan losses charged to expense. The amount of this allowance is determined by our management through periodic reviews and consideration of several factors, including, but not limited to:•our general reserve, based on our historical default and loss experience, certain macroeconomic factors, and management’s expectations of future events;•our specific reserve, based on our evaluation of nonperforming loans and their underlying collateral; and•an unallocated reserve to provide for other credit losses inherent in our portfolio that may not have been contemplated in the other loss factors.The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires us to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Continuing deterioration in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. Slower sales, excess inventory and declining prices in the housing market have been the primary causes of the recent increases in delinquencies and foreclosure in our loan portfolio. If current weak conditions in the housing and real estate markets continue, we expect we will continue to experience further delinquencies and credit losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses we will need additional provisions to replenish the allowance for loan losses. Any additional provisions will result in a decrease in net income and possibly capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.The weakened housing market may result in a decline in fair value of REO. In recent months we have foreclosed on certain real estate development and commercial real estate loans and have taken possession of several residential subdivision properties as well as single family residential properties. REO is initially recorded at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. Because of the weak housing market and decline in property values over the last several years, we may incur losses to write-down REO to new fair values or losses from the final sale of properties. Moreover, our ability to sell REO properties is affected by public perception that banks are inclined to accept large discounts from market value to quickly liquidate properties. Write-downs on REO or an inability to sell REO properties will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our REO and may require us to recognize further charge-offs. Any increase in our charge-offs, as required by the bank regulators, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.52Table of ContentsWe operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations.We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Idaho Department of Finance, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve Board. These banking regulators govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund. These regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the ability to impose restrictions on a bank’s operations, reclassify assets, determine the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and determine the level of deposit insurance premiums assessed. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act) has significantly changed, and will continue to change, the bank regulatory structure and has affected the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Among other provisions, the Dodd-Frank Act created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of various federal banking agencies, and will establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting and implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many months or years.Certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to have a near term impact on us. For example, a provision of the Dodd-Frank Act eliminates the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense.The Dodd-Frank Act also broadens the base for FDIC insurance assessments. Assessments are now based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, and noninterest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013.The Dodd-Frank Act requires publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded.The Dodd-Frank Act created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that has the authority to promulgate rules intended to protect consumers in the financial products and services market. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Financial institutions such as Home Federal Bank with $10 billion or less in assets will continue to be examined for compliance with the consumer laws by their primary bank regulators.It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and could increase our interest expense. Any additional changes in our regulation and oversight, whether in the form of new laws, rules or regulations, could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or prospects.The short-term and long-term impact of the changing regulatory capital requirements and anticipated new capital rules is uncertain.In June 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal. The proposed rules were subject to a public comment period that has expired and there is no date set for the adoption of final rules.Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as Home Federal Bancorp. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules include new minimum risk-based capital 53Table of Contentsand leverage ratios, which would be phased in during 2013 and 2014, and would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total capital ratio of 10.5%. The new capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases, and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital level falls below the buffer amount. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal.In addition, in the current economic and regulatory environment, regulators of banks and bank holding companies have become more likely to impose capital requirements on bank holding companies and banks that are more stringent than those required by applicable existing regulations.The application of more stringent capital requirements for Home Federal Bancorp and Home Federal could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models, and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares.Continued deterioration in the financial position of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle may result in future impairment losses of our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank stock.At December 31, 2012, we owned $17.4 million of stock of the FHLB of Seattle. As a condition of membership at the FHLB, we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB and is calculated in accordance with the Capital Plan of the FHLB. Our FHLB stock has a par value of $100, is carried at cost, and is subject to impairment testing. The FHLB has announced that it had a risk-based capital deficiency under the regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (the FHFA), its primary regulator, as of December 31, 2008, and that it would suspend future dividends and the repurchase and redemption of outstanding common stock. As a result, the FHLB has not paid a dividend since the fourth quarter of 2008. The FHLB has communicated that it believes the calculation of risk-based capital under the current rules of the FHFA significantly overstates the market risk of the FHLB’s private-label mortgage-backed securities in the current market environment and that it has enough capital to cover the risks reflected in its balance sheet. As a result, we have not recorded an other-than-temporary impairment on our investment in FHLB stock. However, deterioration in the FHLB’s financial position may result in impairment in the value of those securities. In addition, in October 2010, the FHLB received a consent order from the FHFA. In its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2012, the FHLB of Seattle reported that it continues to address the requirements of the Consent Agreement and that, as of December 31, 2012, it met all minimum financial metrics required under the Consent Agreement. Further, the FHLB of Seattle reported that in September 2012 the FHFA reclassified the FHLB of Seattle to be adequately capitalized. Any dividends on, or repurchases of, the FHLB of Seattle stock continue to require consent of the FHFA. The FHFA recently approved the FHLB of Seattle to repurchase a portion of its stock and the FHLB of Seattle purchased $158,000 of stock from us in September, 2012 and an additional $158,000 in December, 2012. We will continue to monitor the financial condition of the FHLB as it relates to, among other things, the recoverability of our investment. Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition, growth and prospects. Liquidity is essential to our business and the inability to obtain adequate funding may negatively affect growth and, consequently, our earnings capability and capital levels. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. We rely on customer deposits 54Table of Contentsand advances from the FHLB of Seattle, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (FRB) and other borrowings to fund our operations. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms which are acceptable could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the deterioration in credit markets. Factors that could detrimentally impact our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of a downturn in the Idaho or Oregon markets where our loans are concentrated or adverse regulatory action against us. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Although we consider our sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs, we may seek additional debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on reasonable terms. If that happens, our financial condition, results of operations, growth and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. Our litigation-related costs might continue to increase.The Bank is subject to a variety of legal proceedings that have arisen in the ordinary course of its business. In the current economic environment the Bank’s involvement in litigation has increased significantly, primarily as a result of defaulted borrowers asserting claims in order to defeat or delay foreclosure proceedings. The Bank believes that it has meritorious defenses in legal actions where it has been named as a defendant and is vigorously defending these suits. Although management, based on discussion with litigation counsel, believes that such proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or operations of the Bank, there can be no assurance that a resolution of any such legal matters will not result in significant liability to the Bank nor have a material adverse impact on its financial condition and results of operations or the Bank’s ability to meet applicable regulatory requirements. Moreover, the expenses of pending legal proceedings will adversely affect the Bank’s results of operations until they are resolved. There can be no assurance that the Bank’s loan workout and other activities will not expose the Bank to additional legal actions, including lender liability or environmental claims.We face strong competition from other financial institutions, financial service companies and other organizations offering services similar to those offered by us, which could limit our growth and profitability.We face direct competition from a significant number of financial institutions, many with a state-wide or regional presence, and in some cases a national presence, in both originating loans and attracting deposits. Competition in originating loans comes primarily from other banks, mortgage companies and consumer finance institutions that make loans in our primary market areas. We also face substantial competition in attracting deposits from other banking institutions, money market and mutual funds, credit unions and other investment vehicles.In addition, banks with larger capitalization and non-bank financial institutions that are not governed by bank regulatory restrictions have large lending limits and are better able to serve the needs of larger customers. Many of these financial institutions are also significantly larger and have greater financial resources than us, have been in business for a long period of time and have established customer bases and name recognition.We compete for loans principally on the basis of interest rates and loan fees, the types of loans we originate and the quality of service we provide to borrowers. Our ability to attract and retain deposits requires that we provide customers with competitive investment opportunities with respect to rate of return, liquidity, risk and other factors. To effectively compete, we may have to pay higher rates of interest to attract deposits, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are not able to effectively compete in our market area, our profitability may be negatively affected, potentially limiting our ability to pay dividends. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by some of our competitors may also limit our ability to increase our interest-earning assets. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements.The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial 55Table of Contentsinstitutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers.The operations of our business, including our interaction with customers, are increasingly done via electronic means, and this has increased our risks related to cybersecurity.We are exposed to the risk of cyber-attacks in the normal course of business. In general, cyber incidents can result from deliberate attacks or unintentional events. We have observed an increased level of attention in the industry focused on cyber-attacks that include, but are not limited to, gaining unauthorized access to digital systems for purposes of misappropriating assets or sensitive information, corrupting data, or causing operational disruption. Cyber-attacks may also be carried out in a manner that does not require gaining unauthorized access, such as by causing denial-of-service attacks on websites. Cyber-attacks may be carried out by third parties or insiders using techniques that range from highly sophisticated efforts to electronically circumvent network security or overwhelm websites to more traditional intelligence gathering and social engineering aimed at obtaining information necessary to gain access. The objectives of cyber-attacks vary widely and can include theft of financial assets, intellectual property, or other sensitive information, including the information belonging to our banking customers. Cyber-attacks may also be directed at disrupting our operations.While we have not incurred any material losses related to cyber-attacks, nor are we aware of any specific or threatened cyber-incidents as of the date of this report, we may incur substantial costs and suffer other negative consequences if we fall victim to successful cyber-attacks. Such negative consequences could include remediation costs that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repairing system damage that may have been caused; increased cybersecurity protection costs that may include organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third party experts and consultants; lost revenues resulting from unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack; litigation; and reputational damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence.If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and, as a result, investors and depositors could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits.In connection with the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Act) and the implementation of the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC, we document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Act. This requires us to prepare an annual management report on our internal control over financial reporting, including among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and an attestation report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. If we fail to identify and correct any deficiencies in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential shareholders and depositors could lose confidence in our internal controls and financial reporting, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, the trading price of our common stock and our ability to attract additional deposits. Our earnings may be negatively affected by a failure to comply with the terms of the loss share agreements with the FDIC or if our losses are less than expected.In connection with the CFB and LibertyBank Acquisitions, Home Federal Bank entered in to loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that significantly reduces the Bank's credit loss exposure. Losses on covered assets in the CFB Acquisition are indemnified by the FDIC at the rate of 80% on the first $34 million of losses and at a rate of 95% after that. Losses on covered assets in the LibertyBank Acquisition are indemnified by the FDIC at a rate of 80%. The loss sharing agreements will expire five years after the acquisition date for non-single family covered assets and ten years after the acquisitions date for single-family covered assets. After the expiration of the loss sharing agreements, the Company will not be indemnified for losses and related expenses on covered assets. At December 31, 2012, nearly all of the assets remaining in the covered asset portfolios qualify as non-single family covered assets. Therefore, most of our covered assets will no longer be indemnified after September 2014 for assets purchased in the CFB Acquisition and September 2015 for assets purchased in the LibertyBank Acquisition.56Table of ContentsThe purchase and assumption agreements and the loss sharing agreements for the Community First Bank and LibertyBank Acquisitions have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements. Our failure to comply with the terms of the agreements or to properly service the loans and REO under the requirements of the loss sharing agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss share payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. In addition, in September 2020, approximately ten years following the LibertyBank Acquisition date, the Bank is required to make a payment to the FDIC in the event that losses on covered assets under the loss sharing agreements have been less than the intrinsic loss estimate, which was determined by the FDIC prior to the LibertyBank Acquisition, based on a formula in the agreement. Under the formula, the Bank has estimated the minimum level of losses to avoid a true-up provision payment to the FDIC to be $46.7 million. The maximum amount of the true-up provision is $4.7 million, if there are no losses in the covered loan portfolio. At December 31, 2012, the Bank accrued $528,000 as an estimate of the true-up provision obligation, however, there can be no assurance that additional accruals will not be required in future periods that will negatively affect earnings. In addition, we are required to obtain the consent of the FDIC to engage in certain corporate transactions that may be deemed under the agreements to constitute a transfer of the loss share benefits. For example, any merger or consolidation of Home Federal Bank with another financial institution where our stockholder's would own less than two-thirds of the combined entity would require the consent of the FDIC under the loss share agreements. In instances where the FDIC's consent is required under the loss share agreements, the FDIC may withhold its consent to such transactions or may condition its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable. If the FDIC does not grant its consent to a transaction we would like to pursue, or conditions its consent on terms that we do not find acceptable, this may cause us not to engage in a corporate transaction that might otherwise benefit our stockholders or we may elect to pursue such a transaction without obtaining the FDIC's consent, which could result in termination of our loss share agreements with the FDIC.Changes in accounting standards may affect our performance. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how we report and record our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in a retrospective adjustment to prior financial statements.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.