D. Risk Factors An investment in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, including our financial statements and the related notes thereto, before you decide to buy, hold or sell our common shares. Any of the risk factors we describe below could adversely affect our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. The market price of our common shares could decline and you may lose some or all of your investment if one or more of these risks and uncertainties develop into actual events. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The demand for leased containers depends on many factors beyond our control. Substantially all of our revenue comes from activities related to the leasing, managing and selling of containers. Our ability to continue successfully leasing containers to container shipping lines, earning management fees on leased containers and sourcing capital required to purchase containers depends, in part, upon the continued demand for leased containers. Demand for containers depends largely on the rate of world trade and economic growth, with worldwide consumer demand being the most critical factor affecting this growth. Demand for leased containers is also driven by our customers’ “lease vs. buy” decisions. Economic downturns in the U.S., Europe, Asia and countries with consumer-oriented economies could result in a reduction in world trade volume and demand by container shipping lines for leased containers. Thus, a decrease in the volume of world trade may adversely affect our utilization and per diem rates and lead to reduced revenue and increased operating expenses (such as storage and repositioning costs), and have an adverse effect on our financial performance. We cannot predict whether, or when, such downturns will occur. Other material factors affecting demand for leased containers, utilization and per diem rates include the following: • prices of new and used containers; • economic conditions, profitability, competitive pressures and consolidation in the container shipping industry; • shifting trends and patterns of cargo traffic; 5 Table of Contents • fluctuations in demand for containerized goods outside their area of production; • the availability and terms of container financing for us and for our competitors and customers; • fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates; • overcapacity, undercapacity and consolidation of container manufacturers; • the lead times required to purchase containers; • the number of containers purchased by competitors and container lessees (both containers purchased in the current year and the volume of containers purchased in prior years); • container ship fleet overcapacity or undercapacity; • increased repositioning by container shipping lines of their own empty containers to higher demand locations in lieu of leasing containers; • port congestion and the efficient movement of containers as impacted by labor disputes, work stoppages, increased vessel size, shipping line alliances or other factors that reduce or increase the speed at which containers are handled; • consolidation, withdrawal or insolvency of individual container shipping lines; • import/export tariffs and restrictions; • customs procedures, foreign exchange controls and other governmental regulations; • natural disasters that are severe enough to affect local and global economies or interfere with trade, such as the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan; and • other political and economic factors. Many of these and other factors affecting the container industry are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control. These factors will vary over time, often quickly and unpredictably, and any change in one or more of these factors may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, many of these factors also influence the decision by container shipping lines to lease or buy containers. Should one or more of these factors influence container shipping lines to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate and/or per diems could decrease, resulting in decreased revenue and increased storage and repositioning costs, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any deceleration or reversal of the current domestic and global economic recoveries may materially and negatively impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and future prospects. The global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009 brought about weak US and global economic conditions, inefficiencies and uncertainty in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and extreme volatility in many equity markets and increasing sovereign credit risks. Although these conditions appear to be somewhat abating and domestic and global growth seems to be underway, the continued sustainability of the US and international recovery is uncertain. Any deceleration or reversal of the relatively slow and modest US and global economic recoveries could heighten a number of material risks to our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as our future prospects, including the following: • Containerized cargo volume growth — A contraction or slowdown in containerized cargo volume growth or negative containerized cargo volume growth would likely create lower utilization, higher direct costs, weaker shipping lines going out of business, pressure for us to offer lease concessions and lead to a reduction in the size of our customers’ container fleets. High utilization of our containers and fleet growth may not be sufficient to provide revenue and income growth if increased competition or other factors keep container lease rates low for prolonged periods. 6 Table of Contents • Credit availability and access to equity markets — Issues involving liquidity and capital adequacy affecting lenders could affect our ability to fully access our credit facilities or obtain additional debt and could affect the ability of our lenders to meet their funding requirements when we need to borrow. Further, a high level of volatility in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to access the equity markets for additional capital at attractive prices, if at all. If we are unable to obtain credit or access the capital markets, our business could be negatively impacted. Additionally, in recent years there has been increased access to debt financing on favorable terms by us and our competitors and this has led to greater competition for lease transactions and lower container lease rates. • Credit availability to our customers — We believe that many of our customers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to fund their operations. As a consequence, if our customers lack liquidity, it would likely negatively impact their ability to pay amounts due to us. Lease and/or utilization rates may decrease, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete mostly on price and the availability of containers. Lease rates for our containers depend on a large number of factors, including the following: • the supply of, and demand for, containers available; • the price of new containers (which is positively correlated with the price of steel); • the type and length of the lease; • interest rates and the availability of financing for leasing companies and shipping lines; • embedded assumptions regarding residual value and future lease pricing; • the type and age of the container; • the location of the container being leased; • the quantity of containers available for lease by our competitors; and • lease rates offered by our competitors. Most of these factors are beyond our control. In addition, lease rates can be negatively impacted by, among other things, the entrance of new leasing companies, overproduction of new containers by factories and the over-buying by shipping lines, leasing competitors and tax-driven container investors. For example, during 2001 and again in the second quarter of 2005, overproduction of new containers, coupled with a build-up of container inventories in Asia by leasing companies and shipping lines, led to decreased utilization rates. Additionally in 2012 and continuing in 2013 and 2014, container leasing companies, including us, raised substantial amounts of new funds in the debt and equity markets and also were able to repeatedly refinance existing debt on ever more favorable terms. This increased availability of, and ongoing repricing of, funds, which given a limited demand for containers, has contributed to downward pressure on lease rates. The impact to us of any future decrease in lease rates may be more severe than past rate decreases due to the substantial growth in our owned fleet in the past few years and the relatively high prices paid for new containers in the period from 2010 to 2012 that were initially leased at historically high rates. If future market lease rates decrease or remain at historically low levels, revenues generated by our fleet will likely be adversely affected, which could harm our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Lessee defaults may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition by decreasing revenue and increasing storage, repositioning, collection and recovery expenses. Our containers are leased to numerous container lessees. Lessees are required to pay rent and to indemnify us for damage to or loss of containers. Lessees may default in paying rent and performing other obligations under 7 Table of Contents their leases. A delay or diminution in amounts received under the leases (including leases on our managed containers), or a default in the performance of maintenance or other lessee obligations under the leases could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt. We believe that there is the continued risk of lessee defaults in 2015. During the last several years shipping lines have made a number of efforts to raise freight rates on the major trade lanes, however rate increases have generally not been sustainable for long periods of time. Additionally, excess vessel capacity due to new ship production, including the production of very large ships, and the re-activation of previously laid up vessels will continue to be a factor in 2015. Volatile fuel costs also may impact the financial performance of shipping lines as it is possible that recent fuel price declines will lead to aggressive freight rate competition among shipping lines or fuel prices could increase again, hurting their profitability. Major shipping lines reported improved but mixed financial performance in 2014, but profits have not been consistent. While containerized trade grew modestly in 2014, it was not sufficient to fully utilize the increased vessel capacity. Existing excess vessel capacity and continued new vessel deliveries, especially the delivery of very large vessels, are expected to continue to pressure freight rates for some time. As a result we continue to face heightened risk that our financial performance and cash flow could be severely affected by defaults by our customers. When lessees default, we may fail to recover all of our containers, and the containers that we do recover may be returned to locations where we will not be able to quickly re-lease or sell them on commercially acceptable terms. In recovery actions we must locate the containers and often need to pay accrued storage charges to depots and terminals. We also may have to reposition these containers to other places where we can re-lease or sell them, which could be expensive, depending on the locations and distances involved. Following repositioning, we may need to repair the containers and pay container depots for storage until the containers are re-leased. These recovery, repair and repositioning costs generally are reflected in our financial statements under direct container expense. Accordingly the amount of our bad debt expense may not capture the total adverse financial impact on us from a shipping line’s default. For our owned containers, these costs directly reduce our income and for our managed containers, lessee defaults decrease rental revenue and increase operating expenses, and thus reduce our management fee revenue. While we maintain insurance to cover some defaults, it is subject to large deductible amounts and significant exclusions and, therefore, may not be sufficient to prevent us from suffering material losses. Additionally, this insurance might not be available to us in the future on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any such future defaults could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Historically we have recovered a very high percentage of the containers from defaulted lessees. However in 2013 we encountered defaults from several smaller lessees where recoveries did not track to our historical experience and significant losses were incurred. These losses were due to a number of containers being unrecoverable as the containers were not in the control of the lessee or the containers were detained by depots or terminals that demanded storage charges in excess of the value of the detained containers after accounting for repair and repositions costs. If a material amount of future recoveries from defaulted lessees continue to deviate from our historical recovery experience, our financial performance and cash flow could be severely adversely affected. Certain liens may arise on our containers. Depot operators, manufacturers, repairmen and transporters may come into possession of our containers from time to time and have amounts due to them from the lessees or sublessees of the containers. In the event of nonpayment of those charges by the lessees or sublessees, we may be delayed in, or entirely barred from, repossessing the containers, or be required to make payments or incur expenses to discharge such liens on our containers. 8 Table of Contents Sustained reduction in the prices of new containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If the downturn in new container prices is sustained, the lease rates of older, off-lease containers would also be expected to decrease and the prices obtained for containers sold at the end of their useful life would also be expected to decrease. Since the beginning of 2013 we have seen new container pricing and the sale prices of our containers sold at the end of their useful life decline. If the reduction in the price of new containers is sustained such that the market lease rate or resale value for all containers is reduced, this trend could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition, even if this sustained reduction in price would allow us to purchase new containers at a lower cost. If we are unable to lease our new containers shortly after we purchase them, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be harmed. Lease rates for new containers are positively correlated to the fluctuations in the price of new containers, which is positively correlated with the price of steel, a major component used in the manufacture of new containers. In the past five years, prices for new standard 20’ dry freight containers have moved in a wide range, with prices ranging between an average of $1,900 to $2,700 during this time. Our average new container cost per CEU decreased 3.9% during 2014 from 2013. If we are unable to lease the new containers that we purchase within a short period of time of such purchase, the market price of new containers and the corresponding market lease rates for new containers may decrease, regardless of the higher cost of the previously purchased containers. Additionally, if we believe new container prices are attractive, we may determine to purchase more containers than we have immediate demand for if we expect container prices or lease rates may rise. If prices do not rise or new container demand weakens, we may be unable to lease this speculative inventory on attractive terms or at all. Declines in new container prices, lease rates, or the inability to lease new containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face risks associated with re-leasing containers after their initial long term lease. We estimate the useful lives of our non-refrigerated containers other than open top and flat rack containers, refrigerated containers, tank containers and open top and flat rack containers to be 13, 12, 20 and 14 years, respectively. When we purchase newly produced containers, we typically lease them out under long-term leases with terms of three to five years at a lease rate that is correlated to the price paid for the container and prevailing interest rates. As containers leased under term leases are not leased out for their full economic life, we face risks associated with re-leasing containers after their initial long term lease at a rate that continues to provide a reasonable economic return based on the initial purchase price of the container. If prevailing container lease rates decline significantly between the time a container is initially leased out and when its initial long term lease expires, or if overall demand for containers declines, we may be unable to earn a similar lease rate from the re-leasing of containers when their initial term leases expire. These could materially adversely impact our results and financial performance. Gains and losses associated with the disposition or trading of used equipment may fluctuate and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We regularly sell used containers at the end of their useful lives in marine service or when we believe it maximizes the projected financial return, considering the location, sale price, cost of repair, possible repositioning expenses, earnings prospects and remaining useful life. The residual value of these containers affects our profitability. The volatility of the residual values of used containers may be significant. These values depend upon, among other factors, demand for used containers for secondary purposes, comparable new container costs, used container availability, condition and location of the containers, and market conditions. Most of these factors are outside of our control. Additionally, if shipping lines or our leasing company competitors determine to sell their used containers at a younger age than we believe to be the useful life of our equipment, our containers may be more difficult to sell or may sell for less than containers that were more recently manufactured. 9 Table of Contents Gains or losses on the disposition of used container equipment and the sales fees earned on the disposition of managed containers will also fluctuate and may be significant if we sell large quantities of used containers. Any such fluctuations could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for a discussion of our gains or losses on the disposition of used container equipment. In addition to disposing of our fleet’s used containers at the end of their useful life, we opportunistically purchase used containers for resale from our shipping line customers and other sellers. Traditionally shipping lines would enter into trading deals with us at the time they were ready to dispose of older containers. Recently, shipping lines have entered into purchase leaseback transactions with us where they sell us older containers and then lease them back until the shipping line is ready to dispose of the containers. We face resale price risk with purchase leaseback transactions since we may not get the container returned from shipping lines for several years after we have paid for them and prevailing prices for older containers may decline. If the supply of trading equipment becomes limited because these sellers develop other means for disposing of their equipment or develop their own sales network, our equipment trading revenues and our profitability could be negatively impacted. If selling prices rapidly deteriorate and we are holding a large inventory that was purchased when prices for trading equipment were higher or if prices decline over the life of our purchase leaseback transactions, then our gross margins from trading and the sale of containers acquired through purchase leaseback transactions could decline or become negative. Sustained reduction in the production of new containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The lack of new production of standard dry freight containers from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the end of 2009, combined with continued retirement of older containers in the ordinary course, led to a decline in the world container fleet of approximately 4% in 2009, creating a shortage of containers as worldwide cargo volumes increased by 12.0% in 2010 and 8.6% in 2011. During the period of decline in the world container fleet, container manufacturers lost up to 60% of their skilled work force due to long shutdowns, and had limited production capacity in 2010 as they had to hire and train a new skilled work force. Although manufacturers resumed production in 2011 and continued steady production from 2012 through 2014, if there is a sustained reduction in the production of new containers, it could impact our ability to expand our fleet, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consolidation of container manufacturers or the disruption of manufacturing for the major manufacturers could result in higher new container prices and/or decreased supply of new containers. Any material increase in the cost or reduction in the supply of new containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently purchase almost all of our containers from manufacturers based in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”). If it were to become more expensive for us to procure containers in the PRC or to transport these containers at a low cost from the manufacturer to the locations where they are needed by our container lessees because of changes in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and Chinese Yuan, consolidation among container suppliers, increased tariffs imposed by the U.S. or other governments, increased fuel costs, increased labor costs, or for any other reason, we may have to seek alternative sources of supply. While we are not dependent on any single manufacturer for our supply of containers, we may not be able to make alternative arrangements quickly enough to meet our container needs, and the alternative arrangements may increase our costs. In particular, the availability and price of containers depend significantly on the capacity and bargaining position of the major container manufacturers. Due to consolidation in the container manufacturing industry, three major manufacturers have approximately 80% of that industry’s market share. This market structure has 10 Table of Contents lead to significant variability in container prices. If an increased cost of purchasing containers is not matched by a corresponding increase in lease rates, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. A contraction or slowdown in containerized cargo growth or negative containerized cargo growth would lead to a surplus of containers and a lack of storage space, which could negatively impact us. We depend on third party depot operators to repair and store our equipment in port areas throughout the world. Growth in the world’s container fleet has significantly outpaced growth in depot capacity and even in the current period of historically high utilization, we are experiencing limited depot capacity in certain major port cities, including Singapore, Hong Kong and Pusan. Additionally, the land occupied by depots is increasingly being considered prime real estate, as it is a coastal land in or near major cities, and this land may be developed into other uses or there may be increasing restrictions on depot operations by local communities. This could increase depots costs and in some cases force depots to relocate to sites further from the port areas. If these changes affect a large number of our depots, or if we experience a period of lower container utilization, it could significantly increase the cost of maintaining and storing our off-hire containers. Additionally, if depot space is unavailable, we may be unable to accept returned containers from lessees, which may cause us to breach our lease agreements. We own a large and growing number of containers in our fleet and are subject to significant ownership risk and increasing our owned fleet entails increasing our debt, which could result in financial instability. Ownership of containers entails greater risk than management of containers for container investors. In 2014, we increased the percentage of containers in our fleet that we own from 75.6% at the beginning of the year to 78.9% at the end of the year and as of March 1, 2015 the owned percentage of our fleet is approximately 79.1%. The increased number of containers in our owned fleet increases our exposure to financing costs, financing risks, changes in per diem rates, re-leasing risk, changes in utilization rates, lessee defaults, repositioning costs, storage expenses, impairment charges and changes in sales price upon disposition of containers. The number of containers in our owned fleet fluctuates over time as we purchase new containers, sell containers into the secondary resale market, and acquire other fleets. As part of our strategy, we focus on increasing the number of owned containers in our fleet and we therefore expect our ownership risk to increase correspondingly. As we increase the number of containers in our owned fleet, we will likely have more capital at risk and may need to maintain higher debt balances. For example, our total debt increased from $2,667.3 million at the start of 2014 to $2,996.0 million at the end of 2014. Additional borrowings may not be available under our revolving credit facilities or our secured debt facilities, and we may not be able to refinance these facilities, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may need to raise additional debt or equity capital in order to fund our business, expand our sales activities and/or respond to competitive pressures. We may not have access to the capital resources we desire or need to fund our business or may not have access on attractive terms. These effects, among others, may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our plans to maintain the container ownership portion of our business. Terrorist attacks, the threat of such attacks or the outbreak of war and hostilities could negatively impact our operations and profitability and may expose us to liability. Terrorist attacks and the threat of such attacks have contributed to economic instability in the U.S. and elsewhere, and further acts or threats of terrorism, violence, war or hostilities could similarly affect world trade and the industries in which we and our container lessees operate. For example, worldwide containerized trade dramatically decreased in the immediate aftermath of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S., which affected demand for leased containers. In addition, terrorist attacks, threats of terrorism, violence, war or hostilities may directly impact ports, depots, our facilities or those of our suppliers or container lessees and could 11 Table of Contents impact our sales and our supply chain. A severe disruption to the worldwide ports system and flow of goods could result in a reduction in the level of international trade and lower demand for our containers. Our lease agreements require our lessees to indemnify us for all costs, liabilities and expenses arising out of the use of our containers, including property damage to the containers, damage to third-party property and personal injury. However, our lessees may not have adequate resources to honor their indemnity obligations after a terrorist attack. Our insurance coverage is limited and is subject to large deductibles and significant exclusions and we have very limited insurance for liability arising from a terrorist attack. Accordingly, we may not be protected from liability (and expenses in defending against claims of liability) arising from a terrorist attack. We derive a substantial portion of our lease billings from a limited number of container lessees, and the loss of, or reduction in business by, any of these container lessees could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of lease billings and cash flow from a limited number of container lessees. Lease billings from our 20 largest container lessees represented $462.5 million or 74.7% of the total fleet billings during 2014, with lease billings from our single largest container lessee accounting for $72.8 million, or 11.8% of container lease billings during such fiscal year. Given the high concentration of our customer base, a default by any of our largest customers would result in a major reduction in leasing revenue, large repossession expenses, potentially large lost equipment charges and a material adverse impact on our performance and financial condition. The introduction of very large container ships (13,000 TEU+) on the major trade lanes may lead to further industry consolidation, an even greater reliance by us on our largest customers, and negatively impact the performance of smaller and mid-size shipping lines. Several of the largest shipping lines have invested heavily in these very large ships and reportedly have achieved meaningful unit cost advantages and increased market shares on the major trade lanes. In response, some smaller shipping lines have started to exit the major trade lanes, while others are seeking to form closer operating partnerships. We face extensive competition in the container leasing industry and our lessees may decide to buy, rather than lease their containers. We may be unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive container leasing and container management businesses. We compete with a relatively small number of major leasing companies, many smaller lessors, companies and financial institutions offering finance leases, and promoters of container ownership and leasing as a tax-efficient investment. Some of these competitors may have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do. Additionally, some of these competitors may have large, underutilized inventories of containers, which could, if leased, lead to significant downward pressure on per diem rates, margins and prices of containers. Competition among container leasing companies depends upon many factors, including, among others: per diem rates; supply reliability; lease terms, including lease duration, drop-off restrictions and repair provisions; customer service; and the location, availability, quality and individual characteristics of containers. New entrants into the leasing business may be attracted by the historically high rate of containerized trade growth, access to the capital markets and the recent financial performance of the publicly traded leasing companies. New entrants may be willing to offer pricing or other terms that we are unwilling or unable to match. Additionally, the management agreements under which we manage containers for other parties do not restrict these container owners from having other container fleets managed by competing leasing companies or from directly competing with us. We, like other suppliers of leased containers, are dependent upon decisions by shipping lines to lease rather than buy their container equipment. Shipping lines own a significant amount of the world’s intermodal containers and effectively compete with us. In part due to constraints on their financing and desire to allocate capital to new ship purchases and port terminals, in recent years, shipping lines have generally reduced their purchases of new 12 Table of Contents containers. In 2014 we believe more than half of all shipping containers were purchased by leasing companies and we estimate that this trend will continue in 2015. Should shipping lines decide to buy a larger percentage of the containers they operate, our utilization rate would decrease, resulting in decreased leasing revenues, increased storage costs and increased positioning costs. A decrease in the portion of leased containers would also reduce our investment opportunities and significantly constrain our growth. Our results of operations are subject to changes resulting from the political and economic policies of the PRC and economic activity in the PRC. A substantial portion of our containers are leased out from locations in the PRC. The main manufacturers of containers are also located in the PRC. The political and economic policies of the PRC and the level of economic activity in the PRC may have a significant impact on our company and our financial performance. Changes in the political leadership of the PRC may have a significant effect on laws and policies that impact economic growth and trade and the corresponding need for containers to ship goods from the PRC, including the introduction of measures to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion, remittances abroad, and foreign investment. Moreover, economic reforms and growth in the PRC have been more successful in certain provinces than in others, and the continuation of or increases in such disparities could affect the political or social stability of the PRC. Furthermore, the current high level of debt by some companies in China may lead to defaults which may not be supported by the Chinese government. A large number of our shipping line customers are domiciled either in the PRC (including Hong Kong) or in Taiwan. In 2014, approximately 26.6% of our revenue was attributable to shipping line customers that were either domiciled in the PRC (including Hong Kong) or in Taiwan. Almost all container manufacturing facilities from which we purchased our containers in 2014 are located in the PRC. A reduced rate of economic growth, changes to economic policy or political instability in either the PRC or Taiwan could have a negative effect on our major customers, our ability to obtain containers and correspondingly, our results of operations and financial condition. The legal systems in the PRC and other jurisdictions have inherent uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to us and even if legal judgments are obtained, collection may be difficult. We currently purchase almost all of our containers from manufacturers based in the PRC. In addition, a substantial portion of our containers are leased out from locations in the PRC. California law governs almost all of these agreements. However, disputes or settlements arising out of these agreements may need to be enforced in the PRC. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in the PRC. However, since these laws and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and may be subject to considerable discretion, variation, or influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. The enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involves uncertainties that may limit remedies available to us. Any litigation or arbitration in the PRC may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, the PRC may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights that we may have under our contracts or otherwise in the PRC, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, as our containers are used in trade involving goods being shipped to locations throughout the world, it is not possible to predict, with any degree of certainty, the jurisdictions in which enforcement proceedings may be commenced. Litigation and enforcement proceedings have inherent uncertainties in any 13 Table of Contents jurisdiction and are expensive. These uncertainties are enhanced in countries that have less developed legal systems where the interpretation of laws and regulations is not consistent, may be influenced by factors other than legal merits and may be cumbersome, time-consuming and even more expensive. For example, repossession from defaulting lessees may be difficult and more expensive in jurisdictions whose laws do not confer the same security interests and rights to creditors and lessors as those in the United States and where the legal system is not as well developed. Additionally, even if we are successful in obtaining judgments against defaulting lessees, these lessees may have limited owned assets and/or heavily encumbered assets and the collection and enforcement of a monetary judgment may be unsuccessful. As a result, the remedies available and the relative success and expedience of collection and enforcement proceedings with respect to the containers in various jurisdictions cannot be predicted. Because substantially all of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars, but a significant portion of our expenses are incurred in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. The U.S. dollar is our primary operating currency. Almost all of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, and approximately 72% of our direct container expenses were denominated in U.S. dollars for the year ended December 31, 2014. Accordingly, a significant amount of our expenses are incurred in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies. During 2014, 2013 and 2012, 28%, 32%, and 36%, respectively, of our direct container expenses were paid in up to 18 different foreign currencies. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against non-U.S. currencies in which our expenses are incurred translates into an increase in those expenses in U.S. dollar terms, which would decrease our net income. While the prices of the used containers we trade or dispose of are primarily quoted and billed in U.S. Dollars, declines in the currencies where these containers are sold relative to the U.S. Dollar can serve to reduce the market prices for used containers, which will decrease our net income. We do not engage in foreign currency hedging activities which might reduce the volatility associated with exchange rates. Sustained Asian economic instability could reduce demand for leasing, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our customers are substantially dependent upon shipments of goods exported from Asia. From time to time, there have been health scares, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome and avian flu, financial turmoil, natural disasters and political instability in Asia. If these events were to occur in the future, they could adversely affect our container lessees and the general demand for shipping and lead to reduced demand for leased containers or otherwise adversely affect us. Any reduction in demand for leased containers would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The demand for leased containers is partially tied to international trade. If this demand were to decrease due to increased barriers to trade, or for any other reason, it could reduce demand for intermodal container leasing, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our containers are used in trade involving goods being shipped from the PRC and other Asian countries to the United States, Europe or other regions. The willingness and ability of international consumers to purchase foreign goods is dependent on political support, in the United States, Europe and other countries, for an absence of government-imposed barriers to international trade in goods and services. For example, international consumer demand for foreign goods is related to price; if the price differential between foreign goods and domestically-produced goods were to decrease due to increased tariffs on foreign goods, strengthening in the applicable foreign currencies relative to domestic currencies, rising wages, increasing input or energy costs or other factors, demand for foreign goods could decrease, which could result in reduced demand for intermodal container leasing. A similar reduction in demand for intermodal container leasing could result from an increased use of quotas or other technical barriers to restrict trade. The current regime of relatively free trade may not continue. 14 Table of Contents The international nature of the container shipping industry exposes us to numerous risks. We are subject to risks inherent in conducting business across national boundaries, any one of which could adversely impact our business. These risks include: • regional or local economic downturns; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • changes in governmental policy or regulation; • restrictions on the transfer of funds or other assets into or out of different countries; • import and export duties and quotas; • domestic and foreign customs, tariffs and taxes; • war, hostilities and terrorist attacks, or the threat of any of these events; • government instability; • nationalization of foreign assets; • government protectionism; • compliance with export controls and economic sanctions, including those of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Treasury; • compliance with import procedures and controls, including those of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; • consequences from changes in tax laws, including tax laws pertaining to the container investors; • potential liabilities relating to foreign withholding taxes; • labor or other disruptions at key ports; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; and • restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in various jurisdictions. One or more of these factors or other related factors may impair our current or future international operations and, as a result, harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on our proprietary information technology systems to conduct our business. If these systems fail to perform their functions adequately, or if we experience an interruption in their operation, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The efficient operation of our business is highly dependent on our proprietary information technology systems. We rely on our systems to record transactions, such as repair and depot charges, purchases and disposals of containers and movements associated with each of our owned or managed containers. We use the information provided by these systems in our day-to-day business decisions in order to effectively manage our lease portfolio, reduce costs and improve customer service. We also rely on these systems for the accurate tracking of the performance of our managed fleet for each container investor. The failure of our systems to perform as we expect could disrupt our business, adversely affect our results of operations and cause our relationships with lessees and container investors to suffer. Our information technology systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, power loss and computer systems failures and viruses or cyber-attacks. Even though we have developed redundancies and other contingencies to mitigate any disruptions to our information technology systems, these redundancies and contingencies may not completely prevent interruptions to our information technology systems. Any such interruptions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Consolidation, shipping line alliances, and concentration in the container shipping industry could decrease the demand for leased containers. We primarily lease containers to container shipping lines. The container shipping lines have historically relied on a large number of leased containers to satisfy their needs. The shipping industry has been consolidating for a number of years, and further consolidation is expected. Historically shipping lines have also formed a number of alliances to share vessel space and the creation of new alliances and changes in the membership of each alliance is ongoing. Consolidation of major container shipping lines and growth of alliances could create efficiencies and decrease the demand that container shipping lines have for leased containers because they may be able to fulfill a larger portion of their needs through their owned container fleets. Consolidation could also create concentration of credit risk if the number of our container lessees decreases. If shipping line alliances are effective at making shipping lines more efficient, this could reduce the demand for containers. Additionally, large container shipping lines with significant resources could choose to manufacture or purchase their own containers, which would decrease their demand for leased containers and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs to reposition our containers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. When lessees return containers to locations where supply exceeds demand, we sometimes reposition containers to higher demand areas. Repositioning expenses vary depending on geographic location, distance, freight rates and other factors, and may not be fully covered by drop-off charges collected from the previous lessee of the containers or pick-up charges paid by the new lessee. We seek to limit the number of and impose surcharges on containers returned to low demand locations. Market conditions, however, may not enable us to continue such practices. In addition, we may not be able to accurately anticipate which locations will be characterized by higher or lower demand in the future, and our current contracts will not protect us from repositioning costs if locations that we expect to be higher demand locations turn out to be lower demand locations at the time the containers are returned. Any such increases in costs to reposition our containers could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our indebtedness reduces our financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. We have historically operated with, and anticipate continuing to operate with, a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had outstanding indebtedness of $2,996.0 million under our debt facilities. All of our outstanding indebtedness is secured debt collateralized by our container assets. There is no assurance that we will be able to refinance our outstanding indebtedness on terms that we can afford or at all. If we are unable to refinance our outstanding indebtedness, or if we are unable to increase the amount of our borrowing capacity, it could limit our ability to grow our business. The amount of our indebtedness, and the terms of the related indebtedness (including interest rates and covenants), could have important consequences for us, including the following: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, investments, dividends, and future business opportunities and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • reduce our ability to make acquisitions or expand our business; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our current or future debt obligations; • any failure to comply with our debt obligations, including financial and other restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing such indebtedness, which could lead 16 Table of Contents to, among other things, an acceleration of our indebtedness or foreclosure on the assets securing our indebtedness and have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to sell assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; and • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including changes in interest rates. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and related obligations and have sufficient funds left over to achieve or sustain profitability in our operations, meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs or compete successfully in our industry. We will require a significant amount of cash to service and repay our outstanding indebtedness, fund future capital expenditures, and our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and repay our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our business primarily generates cash from our container assets. Our lenders, rating agencies and the investors in our asset-backed debt securities look to the historical and anticipated performance of our container assets when deciding whether to lend to us and the terms for such lending. It is possible that: • our business will not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service and repay our debt and to fund working capital requirements and future capital expenditures; • future borrowings will not be available under our current or future credit facilities in an amount sufficient to enable us to refinance our debt; or • we will not be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all due to declining historical or anticipated financial performance of our assets or for other reasons. The terms of our debt facilities impose, and the terms of any future indebtedness may impose, significant operating, financial and other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries. Restrictions imposed by our secured debt facilities, revolving credit facilities, term loan and bonds may limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends on or redeem or repurchase our common shares; • enter into new lines of business; • issue capital stock of our subsidiaries; • make loans and certain types of investments; • incur liens; • sell certain assets or merge with or into other companies or acquire other companies; • enter into certain transactions with shareholders and affiliates; and • restrict dividends, distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries. We are also required to comply with certain financial ratio covenants. These restrictions could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs and pursue available business opportunities. A breach of any of these restrictions, including a breach of financial covenants, could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness, which will constitute substantially all of our container assets. 17 Table of Contents If we are unable to enter into interest rate swaps, collars and caps on reasonable commercial terms or if a counterparty under our interest rate swap, collar and cap agreements defaults, our exposure associated with our variable rate debt could increase. We have typically funded a significant portion of the purchase price of new containers through borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and our secured debt facilities and intend to use borrowings under our revolving credit facilities and our secured debt facilities for such funding in the future. All of our outstanding debt, other than the $558.4 million in aggregate principal amount under TMCL III’s Series 2013-1 and Series 2014-1 Fixed Rate Asset Backed Notes are subject to variable interest rates. We have entered into various interest rate swap and cap agreements to mitigate our exposure associated with variable rate debt. The swap agreements involve payments by us to counterparties at fixed rates in return for receipts based upon variable rates indexed to the London Inter Bank Offered Rate. There can be no assurance that interest rate caps and swaps will be available in the future, or if available, will be on terms satisfactory to us. Moreover, our interest rate swap agreements are subject to counterparty credit exposure, which is defined as the ability of a counterparty to perform its financial obligations under a derivative contract. While we monitor our counterparties’ credit ratings on an on-going basis, we cannot be certain that they will stay in compliance with the related derivative agreements and not default in the future. If we are unable to obtain interest rate caps, collars and swaps or if a counterparty under our interest rate swap, collar and cap agreements defaults, our exposure associated with our variable rate debt could increase. Use of counterfeit and improper refrigerant in refrigeration machines for refrigerated containers could cause irreparable damage to the refrigeration machines, death or personal injury, and materially impair the value of our refrigerated container fleet. In the past few years, there have been a limited number of reports of counterfeit and improper refrigerant gas being used to service refrigeration machines in depots in Asia. The use of this counterfeit gas has led to the explosion of several refrigeration machines. Several of these incidents have resulted in personal injury or death, and in all cases, the counterfeit gas has led to irreparable damage to the refrigeration machines. Safer testing procedures have been developed and were implemented by refrigeration manufacturers and industry participants in order to determine whether counterfeit or improper gas has been used to service a refrigeration machine. However, there can be no assurance that these procedures will prove to be reliable and cost effective. If the recently developed tests and industry procedures are not proven safe and effective or if the use of such counterfeit and improper refrigerant is more widespread than currently believed or other counterfeit refrigerant issues emerge in the future, the value of our refrigerated container fleet and our ability to lease refrigerated containers could be materially impaired and could therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, we might be subject to claims for damages by parties injured by contaminated refrigeration machinery operated by our lessees which may materially adversely affect us. We face risks from our tank container management agreement with Trifleet Leasing (The Netherlands) B.V. In June 2013 we announced that we had entered into a tank container management agreement with Trifleet Leasing (The Netherlands) B.V. (“Trifleet”). Under this agreement, we invest funds with Trifleet for the purchase and leasing of tank containers. Trifleet is our exclusive manager for investments in tank containers. Intermodal tank containers are used for the transport and storage of liquid foodstuffs, chemicals and gases. This is a specialized market subject to a number of regulations and strict operating procedures. As Trifleet is investing funds on our behalf in tank containers, our return on any investments under this management agreement are highly reliant on their skill and performance, as well as, the overall investment climate for tank containers. While we approve of the amounts committed under the management agreement, Trifleet selects the lessees, negotiates 18 Table of Contents lease terms, determines equipment specifications, negotiates equipment orders and supervises production, and is responsible for all other management activities including customer billing, equipment return, re-leasing, maintenance and repairs. If Trifleet or the tank container market does not perform as we anticipate, we may not receive adequate returns on our investment and our results could be materially impacted. Additionally, given the nature of tank containers and their cargos, our ownership of tank containers could expose us to different and additional risks than we generally face as the owner and lessor of dry freight and refrigerated containers. While lessees, Trifleet and ourselves all maintain insurance, and lessees agree to accept liability for claims caused by the operation of tank containers, this may still be inadequate to shield us from costs and liability from any claims arising from tank containers that we own pursuant to the Trifleet management agreement. If our insurance is inadequate or if we are unable to obtain insurance, we may experience losses. Under all of our leases, our lessees are generally responsible for loss of or damage to a container beyond ordinary wear and tear, and they are required to purchase insurance to cover any other liabilities. Our depots are also required to maintain insurance and indemnify us against losses. We also maintain our own insurance to cover our containers when they are not on-hire to lessees or when the lessee fails to have adequate primary coverage, and third-party liability insurance for both on-hire and off-hire containers. In addition, we maintain insurance that, after satisfying our deductibles, would cover loss of revenue as a result of default under most of our leases, as well as, the recovery cost or replacement value of most of our containers. Lessees’ and depots’ insurance policies and indemnity rights may not protect us against losses. Our own insurance may prove to be inadequate to prevent against losses or in the future coverage may be unavailable or uneconomic, and losses could arise from a lack of insurance coverage. U.S. investors in our company could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based upon the nature of our business activities, we could be classified in the future as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to direct or indirect U.S. investors in our common shares. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors could become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and could become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: • 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or • the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. In applying these tests, we are treated as owning or generating directly our pro rata share of the assets and income of any corporation in which we own at least 25% by value. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we have raised. If you are a U.S. investor and we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you own our common shares, you could be subject to adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless a U.S. investor is permitted to and does elect otherwise under the Internal Revenue Code, such U.S. investor would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the investor’s holding period for our common shares. Based on the composition of our income, valuation of our assets (including goodwill), and our election to treat certain of our subsidiaries as disregarded entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we do not believe we were a PFIC for any period after our initial public offering (“IPO”) date and we do not expect that we should be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year. However, there can be no assurance at all in this regard. Because the PFIC determination is highly 19 Table of Contents fact intensive and made at the end of each taxable year, it is possible that we may be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year or that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) may challenge our determination concerning our PFIC status. We may become subject to unanticipated tax liabilities that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Textainer Group Holdings Limited is a Bermuda company, and we believe that a significant portion of the income derived from our operations will not be subject to tax in Bermuda, which currently has no corporate income tax, or in many other countries in which we conduct activities or in which our customers or containers are located. However, this belief is based on the anticipated nature and conduct of our business, which may change. It is also based on our understanding of our position under the tax laws of the countries in which we have assets or conduct activities. This position is subject to review and possible challenge by taxing authorities and to possible changes in law that may have retroactive effect. A portion of our income is treated as effectively connected with our conduct of a trade or business within the U.S., and is accordingly subject to U.S. federal income tax. It is possible that the IRS will conclude that a greater portion of our income is effectively connected income that should be subject to U.S. federal income tax. Our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we become subject to a significant amount of unanticipated tax liabilities. Our U.S. subsidiaries may be treated as personal holding companies for U.S. federal tax purposes now or in the future. Any of our direct or indirect U.S. subsidiaries could be subject to additional U.S. tax on a portion of its income if it is considered to be a personal holding company (“PHC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This status depends on whether more than 50% of the subsidiary’s shares by value could be deemed to be owned (taking into account constructive ownership rules) by five or fewer individuals and whether 60% or more of the subsidiary’s adjusted ordinary gross income consists of “personal holding company income,” which includes certain forms of passive and investment income. The PHC rules do not apply to non-U.S. corporations. We believe that none of our U.S. subsidiaries should be considered PHCs. In addition, we intend to cause our U.S. subsidiaries to manage their affairs in a manner that reduces the possibility that they will meet the 60% income threshold. However, because of the lack of complete information regarding our ultimate share ownership (i.e., particularly as determined by constructive ownership rules), our U.S. subsidiaries may become PHCs in the future and, in that event, the amount of U.S. federal income tax that would be imposed could be material. The U.S. government has special contracting requirements that create additional risks. We have a firm, fixed price, indefinite quantity contract with the U.S. Transportation Command Directorate of Acquisition (“USTranscom”) to supply leased marine containers to the U.S. military. As an indefinite quantity contract, there is no guarantee that the U.S. military will pay more than the minimum guarantee, which guaranteed amount is substantially below the total amount authorized under the contract. Thus, the expected revenues from the USTranscom contract may not fully materialize. If we do not perform in accordance with the terms of the USTranscom contract, we may receive a poor performance report that would be considered by the U.S. military in making any future awards. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that we will be awarded any future government contracts. In contracting with the U.S. military, we are subject to U.S. government contract laws, regulations and other requirements that impose risks not generally found in commercial contracts. For example, U.S. government contracts require contractors to comply with a number of socio-economic requirements and to submit periodic reports regarding compliance, are subject to audit and modification by the U.S. government in its sole discretion, 20 Table of Contents and impose certain requirements relating to software and/or technical data that, if not followed, could result in the inadvertent grant to the U.S. government of broader licenses to use and disclose such software or data than intended. These laws, regulations and contract provisions also permit, under certain circumstances, the U.S. government unilaterally to: • suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new government contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; • terminate the USTranscom contract; • reduce the scope and value of the USTranscom contract; • audit our performance under the USTranscom contract and our compliance with various regulations; and • change certain terms and conditions in the USTranscom contract. In addition, the U.S. military may terminate the USTranscom contract either for its convenience at any time or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions generally enable the contractor to recover only those costs incurred or committed, and settlement expenses and profit on the work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and make the contractor liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. military in procuring undelivered items from another source. In addition, the U.S. government could bring criminal and civil charges against us based on intentional or unintentional violations of the representations and certifications that we have made in the USTranscom contract. Although adjustments arising from U.S. government audits and reviews have not seriously harmed our business in the past, future audits and reviews could cause adverse effects. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were to be made against us. We may choose to pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs and we face risks from our two joint ventures. We may pursue acquisitions and joint ventures. Acquisitions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating personnel and financial and other systems; • hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in the integration of acquired businesses. Also, the presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are unknown to us at the time of acquisition may have a material adverse effect on our business. Acquisitions or joint ventures may not be successful, and we may not realize any anticipated benefits from acquisitions or joint ventures. On August 5, 2011, a joint venture, TW Container Leasing, Ltd (“TW”), was formed between our wholly-owned subsidiary, Textainer Limited (“TL”), and Wells Fargo Container Corp (“WFC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wells Fargo and Company. The purpose of TW is to lease containers to lessees under direct financing leases. TW is governed by members, credit and management agreements. Under the members agreement, TL owns 25% and WFC owns 75% of the common shares and related voting rights of TW. TL also has two seats and WFC has six seats on TW’s board of directors, with each seat having equal voting rights, provided, however, that the approval of at least one TL-appointed director is required for any action of the board of directors. As we do not own the majority of TW, we face risks associated with investing in an entity that we 21 Table of Contents do not control and it is possible that the interests of the controlling stockholder could be different from our interests. Conflicts between us and the controlling stockholder of TW could result in litigation, an inability to operate TW, lost business opportunities for TW and us, and other problems that might have a material adverse impact on us as a whole. On December 20, 2012, TL purchased 50.1% of the outstanding common shares of TAP Funding Ltd. (“TAP Funding”). TAP Funding owns a fleet of containers under our management. TAP Funding is governed by members and management agreements. TL has two voting rights and TAP Ltd. (“TAP”), the 49.9% shareholder, has one voting right in TAP Funding, with the exception of certain matters such as bankruptcy proceedings, the incurrence of debt and mergers and consolidations, which require unanimity. TL also has two seats and TAP has one seat on TAP Funding’s board of directors. While we own the majority of TAP Funding, we face risks associated with TAP Funding’s structure that requires both shareholders to agree on certain significant matters such as debt financing, mergers and liquidation. It is possible that the interests of the other shareholder could be different from our interests. Conflicts between us and the other shareholder of TAP Funding could result in litigation, an inability to finance and operate TAP Funding, and other problems that might have a material adverse impact on us as a whole. Our senior executives are critical to the success of our business and any inability to retain them or recruit and successfully integrate new personnel could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our senior management has a long history in the container leasing industry, with an average of 17 years of service with us. We rely on this knowledge and experience in our strategic planning and in our day-to-day business operations. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to retain our senior management, the loss of one or more of whom could have a material adverse effect on our business. In October 2011, our then President and Chief Executive Officer, John Maccarone, retired and Philip Brewer was promoted to this position. At that time, Robert Pedersen was promoted to be the President and Chief Executive Officer of Textainer Equipment Management Limited, the wholly-owned subsidiary which provides container management, acquisition and disposition services for us. In September 2011, we hired Daniel Cohen as our Vice President and General Counsel, a new position. In January 2012, we hired Hilliard Terry, III, as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Ernest Furtado, who previously held this position, became our Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting and Compliance Officer. Our success depends on the successful integration and performance of our newly hired officers and on the successful performance of our long-standing officers in their new positions. Our success also depends on our ability to retain our experienced sales force and technical personnel as well as recruit new skilled sales, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for these individuals in our industry is intense and we may not be able to successfully recruit, train or retain qualified personnel. If we fail to retain and recruit the necessary personnel, our business and our ability to obtain new container lessees and provide acceptable levels of customer service could suffer. We have “at will” employment agreements with all of our executive officers. The lack of an international title registry for containers increases the risk of ownership disputes. Although the Bureau International des Containers registers and allocates a four letter prefix to every container in accordance with ISO standard 6346 (Freight container coding, identification and marking) to identify the owner/operator and each container has a unique prefix and serial number, there is no internationally recognized system of recordation or filing to evidence our title to containers nor is there an internationally recognized system for filing security interests in containers. Although this has not occurred to date, the lack of a title recordation system with respect to containers could result in disputes with lessees, end-users, or third parties who may improperly claim ownership of containers. 22 Table of Contents We may incur costs associated with new cargo security regulations, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to regulations promulgated in various countries, including the U.S., seeking to protect the integrity of international commerce and prevent the use of containers for international terrorism or other illicit activities. For example, the Container Security Initiative, the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism and Operation Safe Commerce are among the programs administered by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security that are designed to enhance security for cargo moving throughout the international transportation system by identifying existing vulnerabilities in the supply chain and developing improved methods for ensuring the security of containerized cargo entering and leaving the U.S. Moreover, the International Convention for Safe Containers, 1972, as amended, adopted by the International Maritime Organization, applies to containers and seeks to maintain a high level of safety of human life in the transport and handling of containers by providing uniform international safety regulations. As these regulations develop and change, we may incur compliance costs due to the acquisition of new, compliant containers and/or the adaptation of existing containers to meet new requirements imposed by such regulations. Additionally, certain companies are currently developing or may in the future develop products designed to enhance the security of containers transported in international commerce. Regardless of the existence of current or future government regulations mandating the safety standards of intermodal shipping containers, our competitors may adopt such products or our container lessees may require that we adopt such products. In responding to such market pressures, we may incur increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Environmental liability and regulations may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants to air, ground and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the cleanup of contaminated sites. We could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs, fines and costs arising out of third-party claims for property or natural resource damage and personal injury, as a result of violations of or liabilities under or compliance with environmental laws and regulations in connection with our or our lessees’ current or historical operations. Under some environmental laws in the U.S. and certain other countries, the owner or operator of a container may be liable for environmental damage, cleanup or other costs in the event of a spill or discharge of material from the container without regard to the fault of the owner or operator. While we typically maintain certain limited liability insurance and typically require lessees to provide us with indemnity against certain losses, the insurance coverage may not be sufficient to protect against any or all liabilities and such indemnities may not be sufficient, or available, to protect us against losses arising from environmental damage. Moreover, our lessees may not have adequate resources, or may refuse to honor their indemnity obligations and our insurance coverage is subject to large deductibles, coverage limits and significant exclusions. Environmental regulations also impact container production and operation, including regulations on the use of chemical refrigerants due to their ozone depleting and global warming effects. Our refrigerated containers currently use R134A refrigerant. While R134A does not contain chlorofluorocarbons (“CFCs”), the European Union (“EU”) has instituted regulations to phase out the use of R134A in automobile air conditioning systems beginning in 2011 due to concern that the release of R134A into the atmosphere may contribute to global warming. While the European Union regulations do not currently restrict the use of R134A in refrigerated containers or trailers, it is possible that the phase out of R134A in automobile air conditioning systems will be extended to containers in the future and our operations could be impacted. It has been proposed that R134A usage in containers be banned beginning in 2025, although the final decision has not been made as of yet. Container production also raises environmental concerns. The floors of dry freight containers are plywood typically made from tropical hardwoods. Due to concerns regarding de-forestation and climate change, many countries have implemented severe restrictions on the cutting and export of this wood. Accordingly, container manufacturers have switched a significant portion of production to alternatives such as birch, bamboo, and other farm grown wood and users are also evaluating alternative designs that would limit the amount of plywood 23 Table of Contents required and are also considering possible synthetic materials. New woods or other alternatives have not proven their durability over the typical life of a dry freight container, and if they cannot perform as well as the hardwoods have historically, the future repair and operating costs for these containers may be impacted. Also, the insulation foam in the walls of certain refrigerated containers requires the use of a blowing agent that contains CFCs. Manufacturers are phasing out the use of this blowing agent in manufacturing, however, if future regulations prohibit the use or servicing of containers with insulation manufactured with this blowing agent we could be forced to incur large retrofitting expenses and these containers might bring lower rental rates and disposal prices. EU regulations currently restrict the sale or use of refrigerated containers manufactured with the CFC containing blowing agent and strict enforcement of these regulations could impact our ability to lease or sell these refrigerated containers in EU countries. We are subject to certain U.S. laws that may impact our international operations and any investigation or determination that we violated these laws may affect our business and operations adversely. As a Bermuda corporation that has an indirect wholly-owned U.S. subsidiary with operations in the U.S., we are subject to certain U.S. laws that may impact our international operations. We are subject to the regulations imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. We are also subject to U.S. Executive Orders and U.S. Treasury sanctions regulations restricting or prohibiting business dealings in or with certain nations and with certain specially designated nationals (individuals and legal entities). Any determination or investigation into violations of these laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We could face litigation involving our management of containers for container investors. We manage containers for container investors under management agreements that are negotiated with each container investor. We make no assurances to container investors that they will make any amount of profit on their investment or that our management activities will result in any particular level of income or return of their initial capital. Although our management agreements contain contractual protections and indemnities that are designed to limit our exposure to such litigation, such provisions may not be effective, and we may be subject to a significant loss in a successful litigation by a container investor. We may not always pay dividends on our common shares or our dividends could be reduced. We may not be able to pay future dividends, or we may need to reduce our dividend, because dividends depend on future earnings, capital requirements, and financial condition. The declaration, amount and payment of future dividends are at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent on our future operating results and the cash requirements of our business. There are a number of factors that can affect our ability to pay dividends and there is no guarantee that we will pay dividends in any given year, in each quarter of a year, or pay any specific amount of dividends. In addition, we will not pay dividends in the event we are not allowed to do so under Bermuda law, are in default under (or such payment would cause a default under) TL’s revolving credit facility or term loan, or if such payment would cause us to breach any of our covenants. These covenants include certain financial covenants, which would be directly affected by the payment of dividends, such as a maximum ratio of consolidated funded debt to consolidated tangible net worth (which amount would decrease by the amount of any dividend paid). The reduction, suspension or elimination of dividends may negatively affect the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, since we are a holding company, substantially all of the assets shown on our consolidated balance sheet are held by our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our earnings and cash flow and our ability to pay dividends are largely dependent upon the earnings and cash flows of our subsidiaries and the distribution or other payment of such earnings to us in the form of dividends. The calculation of our income tax expense requires significant judgment and the use of estimates. We periodically assess tax positions based on current tax developments, including enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance. In analyzing our overall tax position, consideration is given to the amount and timing of 24 Table of Contents recognizing income tax liabilities and benefits. In applying the tax and accounting guidance to the facts and circumstances, income tax balances are adjusted appropriately through the income tax provision. We account for income tax positions on uncertainties by recognizing the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not of being sustained and maintain reserves for income tax positions we believe are not more likely than not of being sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized. However, due to the significant judgment required in estimating those reserves, actual amounts paid, if any, could differ significantly from these estimates. Future changes in accounting rules could significantly impact how both we and our customers account for our leases. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP”). The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) issued a new Exposure Draft on lease accounting in May 2013 with a comment period that closed in September 2013 that could significantly change the accounting and reporting for lease arrangements. The main objective of the proposed standard is to create a new accounting model for both lessees and lessors, replacing the existing concepts of operating and capital leases with models based on “right-of-use” concepts. The new models would result in the elimination of most off-balance sheet lease financing for lessees. Some lessees find leasing attractive because under current U.S. GAAP they are not required to include the value (and associated liabilities) of equipment leased under operating leases on their balance sheets, thus improving certain financial metrics. If there are future changes in U.S. GAAP with regard to how we and our customers must account for leases, it could change the way we and our customers conduct our businesses, including eliminating for lessees the financial statement benefit of entering into operating leases, which might have an adverse effect on our business. The FASB and IASB continue to deliberate the Exposure Draft. The timing of the issuance of the final standard is uncertain at this point in time. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our common shares, which may be affected by market conditions beyond our control, have been volatile and could continue to remain volatile. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, causing significant price variations to occur. Since our initial public offering, our common shares have fluctuated from an intra-day low of $4.23 per share to an intra-day high of $43.96 per share. If the market price of the shares declines significantly, the value of an investment in our common shares would decline. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common shares or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates; • publication of research reports about us, other intermodal container lessors or the container shipping industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common shares or our industry; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or preference or common shares we may issue in the future; • changes in our dividend payment policy or failure to execute our existing policy; • actions by shareholders; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; 25 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations affecting the container shipping industry or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; and • impact of global financial crises or stock market disruptions. Recently and in the past, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations could result in extreme volatility in the trading price of our common shares, which could cause a decline in the value of your investment in our common shares. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline for reasons unrelated to our business or financial results, including in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if those events do not directly affect us. You should also be aware that price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our common shares are low. One of our major shareholders, Halco Holdings Inc. (“Halco”), is a company owned by a trust of which Trencor and certain of its affiliates are discretionary beneficiaries, and Halco could act in a manner with which other shareholders may disagree or that is not necessarily in the interests of other shareholders. Halco currently owns approximately 47.9% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Accordingly, Halco has the ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election of directors and any amalgamation, merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Five of our ten directors are also directors of Trencor. Halco may have interests that are different from other shareholders. For example, it may support proposals and actions with which you may disagree or which are not in your interests as a shareholder of our company. The concentration of ownership could delay or prevent a change in control of us or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common shares. Affiliates of Halco and Trencor may compete with us and compete with some of our customers. Halco and Trencor, through their affiliates, are free to compete with us, and have engaged in the past and will likely continue to engage in businesses that are similar to ours. In particular, Leased Assets Pool Company Limited (“LAPCO”), an affiliate of Halco, owns containers, has competed against us and our customers through its investment in containers and has used our competitors to manage some of its containers in the past. Thus, although we have a management agreement with LAPCO to manage a majority of its containers, we expect that we will continue to compete with LAPCO in the future, which may result in various conflicts of interest. Our current management and share ownership structure may create conflicts of interest. Five of our ten directors are also directors of Trencor. These directors owe fiduciary duties to each company and may have conflicts of interest in matters involving or affecting us as well as Halco and Trencor, including matters arising under our agreements with Halco and its affiliates. In addition, to the extent that some of these directors may own shares in Trencor, they may have conflicts of interest when faced with decisions that could have different implications for Trencor than they do for us. Furthermore, Trencor, as a South African company, endorses the Code of Corporate Practices and Conduct in the King III Report on Corporate Governance. The King III Report on Corporate Governance is a document promulgated by the South African Institute of Directors which, among other things, suggests that corporations in their corporate decision-making consider the following stakeholders in addition to the owners of shares: parties who contract with the enterprise; parties who have a non-contractual nexus with the enterprise (including civic society and the environment); and the state. Halco and/or Trencor may seek to impose these corporate governance practices on us, which may result in constraints on management and may involve significant costs. Your interests as a holder of our common shares may not align with the interests of Halco and/or Trencor and their affiliates and shareholders. 26 Table of Contents We are a holding company with no material direct operations and rely on our operating subsidiaries to provide us with funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends. We are a holding company with no material direct operations. Our principal assets are the equity interests we directly or indirectly hold in our operating subsidiaries, which own our operating assets. As a result, we are dependent on loans, dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our common shares. Our subsidiaries are legally distinct from us and may be prohibited or restricted from paying dividends or otherwise making funds available to us under certain conditions. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to, or our board may exercise its discretion not to, pay dividends on our common shares. Our ability to issue securities in the future may be materially constrained by Trencor’s South African currency restrictions and JSE Listings Requirements. Trencor, a South African company listed on the JSE Limited (the “JSE”), is a beneficiary under a trust which owns 100% of Halco, which currently has an interest in 47.9% of our issued and outstanding shares. Five of our ten directors are also directors of Trencor. Both South African exchange control authorities and the JSE impose certain restrictions on Trencor. South Africa’s exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from South Africa. These restrictions require Trencor to obtain approval from South African exchange control authorities before Halco engages in transactions that would result in dilution of Halco’s share interest in us below certain thresholds, whether through Halco’s sale of its own shareholdings or through its approval of our issuance of new shares. The exchange control authorities may decide not to grant such approval if a proposed transaction were to dilute Halco’s interest in us below certain levels. While the South African government has, to some extent, relaxed exchange controls in recent years, it is difficult to predict whether or how it will further relax or abolish exchange control measures in the future. The above requirements could restrict or limit our ability to issue new shares. In addition, Trencor is required to comply with JSE Listings Requirements in connection with Halco’s holding or sale of our common shares. The above requirements could limit our financial flexibility by, among other things, impacting our future ability to raise funds through the issuance of securities, preventing or limiting the use of our common shares as consideration in acquisitions, and limiting our use of option grants and restricted share grants to our directors, officers and other employees as incentives to improve the financial performance of our company. It may not be possible for investors to enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our direct and indirect subsidiaries, except Textainer Equipment Management (U.S.) Limited and Textainer Equipment Management (U.S.) II LLC, are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. A substantial portion of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside of the U.S. In addition, most of our directors are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our non-U.S. subsidiaries, or our directors, or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws, or would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. 27 Table of Contents We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, under New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) rules, we are not required to comply with certain corporate governance requirements. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted by the NYSE to comply with Bermuda corporate governance practice in lieu of complying with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements. This means that we are not required to comply with NYSE requirements that: • the board of directors consists of a majority of independent directors; • independent directors meet in regularly scheduled executive sessions; • the audit committee satisfy NYSE standards for director independence (although we must still comply with independence standards pursuant to Rule 10A-3 promulgated under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended); • the audit committee have a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • we have a nominating and corporate governance committee composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • we have a compensation committee composed of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities; • we establish corporate governance guidelines and a code of business conduct; • our shareholders approve any equity compensation plans; and • there be an annual performance evaluation of the nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees. Our board of directors has adopted an audit committee charter, a compensation committee charter and a nominating and governance committee charter. Additionally, we have a company code of conduct, corporate governance guidelines, conduct performance evaluations of our board and committees, and have obtained shareholder approval for our equity compensation plan. However, we use some of the exemptions available to a foreign private issuer. As a result, our board of directors may not consist of a majority of independent directors and our compensation committee may not consist of any or a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, our shareholders may not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Required public company corporate governance and financial reporting practices and policies have increased our costs, and we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Our management may not be able to continue to meet the regulatory compliance and reporting requirements that are applicable to us as a public company. This result may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, and could lead to a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. If we do not maintain compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, we could suffer a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. In addition, if we fail to maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company. Any failure by us to timely provide the required financial information could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our common shares. Furthermore, testing and maintaining internal controls can divert our management’s attention from other matters 28 Table of Contents that are important to our business. These regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs, we expect the regulations to make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, particularly to serve on our audit committee, and make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. Future sales of a large number of our securities into the public market, or the expectation of such sales, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. Sales of substantial amounts of common securities into the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, may cause the market price of our common shares to decline significantly. In September 2012, we completed a sale of 8,625,000 common shares, including 2,500,000 common shares offered by a selling shareholder, Halco. The price of our shares could be negatively impacted if we undertake additional offerings to sell securities. In addition, at our 2010 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on May 19, 2010, our shareholders approved an amendment to our 2007 Share Incentive Plan to increase the maximum number of our common shares issuable pursuant to such plan by 1,468,500 shares from 3,808,371 shares to 5,276,871 shares. The common shares to be issued pursuant to awards under our 2007 Share Incentive Plan have been registered on registration statements on Form S-8 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission and, when issued, will be freely tradable under the Securities Act of 1933. We have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. Bermuda law and our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These include provisions: • requiring the approval of not less than 66% of our issued and outstanding voting shares for certain merger or amalgamation transactions that have not been approved by our board of directors; • prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person becomes an interested shareholder, unless certain conditions are met; • authorizing our board of directors to issue blank-check preference shares without shareholder approval; • establishing a classified board with staggered three-year terms; • only authorizing the removal of directors (i) for cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting or (ii) without cause by the affirmative vote of the holders of 66% of the common shares then issued and outstanding and entitled to vote on the resolution; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors. These provisions may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and/or our board of directors. Public shareholders who might desire to participate in these types of transactions may not have an opportunity to do so. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control or change our management and board of directors and, as a result, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. As a shareholder of our company, you may have greater difficulties in protecting your interests than as a shareholder of a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended (the “Companies Act”), applies to our company and differs in material respects from laws generally applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders. Taken together with the provisions of our bye-laws, some of these differences may result in your having greater difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder of our company than you would have as a shareholder of 29 Table of Contents a U.S. corporation. This affects, among other things, the circumstances under which transactions involving an interested director are voidable, whether an interested director can be held accountable for any benefit realized in a transaction with our company, what approvals are required for business combinations by our company with a large shareholder or a wholly-owned subsidiary, what rights you may have as a shareholder to enforce specified provisions of the Companies Act or our bye-laws, and the circumstances under which we may indemnify our directors and officers. Our bye-laws restrict shareholders from bringing legal action against our officers and directors. Our bye-laws contain a broad waiver by our shareholders of any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, against any of our officers or directors. The waiver applies to any action taken by an officer or director, or the failure of an officer or director to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the officer or director. This waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our officers and directors unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. 