Item 1A. Risk FactorsSections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and management’s comments from time to time may contain forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on management’s current knowledge and estimates of factors affecting the Company’s operations, both known and unknown. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking information as actual results may differ materially from those currently anticipated. In addition, a number of other factors (those identified elsewhere in this document and others, both known and unknown) may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations.A. H. Belo’s businesses operate in highly competitive media markets, and the Company’s ability to maintain market share and generate revenue depends on how effectively the Company competes with existing and new competition.The Company’s businesses operate in highly competitive media markets. A. H. Belo’s newspapers compete for advertising and circulation revenue with other newspapers, websites, digital applications, magazines, television, radio, direct mail, and other media. The proliferation of the Internet and expansion of digital media and communications, particularly mobile applications, and the development of tablet and mobile devices, increased some consumers’ preferences to receive all or part of their news and information digitally. Websites such as craigslist.com, monster.com, and cars.com provide an efficient forum for reaching wide but targeted audiences for classified advertisements. Websites such as Google and Yahoo! are successful in gathering national, local, and entertainment news and information from multiple sources and attracting a broad readership base. The continued development and deployment of new technologies and greater competition from other media increases the challenges to the Company to provide competitive offerings to retain its print and digital customer base of both advertisers and subscribers. Circulation revenue and the Company’s ability to achieve price increases for its print products may be affected by competition from other publications and other forms of media available in the Company’s various markets, declining consumer spending on discretionary items like newspapers, decreasing amounts of free time, and declining frequency of regular newspaper buying among certain demographic groups. A. H. Belo may incur higher costs competing for advertising dollars and paid circulation, and if the Company is not able to compete effectively for advertising dollars and paid circulation, revenue may decline and the Company’s financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected.A. H. Belo may be unsuccessful in providing desired types of news and information content on digital platforms.The Company increased the functionality of the websites associated with its core newspapers and offered applications for smart phones, tablet devices, and e-readers. These digital platforms offer consumers varying levels of access to similar content offered within the respective newspaper, as well as late-breaking local, national, and international news stories, and interactive content, such as video, blogs, and Twitter feeds. However, the frequency, types and depth of news desired by digital users may not be predictable or consistent with the news and other content offered on the Company’s digital platforms and the costs to attract and retain such consumers may be unprofitable to the Company’s operations.A. H. Belo may be unable to respond to changing perceptions of advertisers about the effectiveness of print advertising.Historically, newspaper publishing was viewed as a cost-effective method of delivery for various forms of advertising. To the extent advertisers shift expenditures to other media, the Company’s ability to provide effective low-cost advertising may suffer. Additionally, digital advertising can provide tools to measure advertising effectiveness. To the extent the Company is not able to provide comparable data to support the effectiveness of print advertising, it may be unable to compete effectively against digital advertising.There can be no assurance that the Company’s product and service initiatives will be successful.The Company continuously introduces product and service initiatives to develop new advertising and market services revenue and to respond to challenges of maintaining revenue in existing markets. These initiatives may not be successful for advertisers, scalable or profitable versus expectations and could result in unprofitable financial performance.An agreement between the U. S. Postal Service and a major preprint advertiser could have a negative effect on preprint advertising revenue.The United States Postal Service provides certain businesses including a national preprint advertiser, with discounted mailing rates. This arrangement allows the advertiser to have a competitive advantage over newspaper companies in reaching consumers through a high saturation distribution program and could result in the loss of preprint advertising revenue to the Company’s newspapers. The Company believes the arrangement violates federal law. A lawsuit by the Newspaper Association of America challenging the regulatory approval is pending in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.PAGE 8A. H. Belo Corporation 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-KTable of ContentsThe state of the economy may continue to adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.The Company’s revenue is sensitive to discretionary spending available to advertisers and subscribers in markets we serve, as well as their perceptions of economic softness and uncertainty. Continued weak economic indicators in various regions across the nation, such as high unemployment rates, weakness in housing and continued uncertainty caused by national and state governments’ inability to resolve fiscal issues in a cost efficient manner to taxpayers may adversely impact consumer sentiment. These conditions could impair the Company’s ability to maintain and grow its advertiser or subscriber base and revenue.Decreases in circulation may adversely affect A. H. Belo’s advertising and circulation revenue.A. H. Belo’s newspapers, and the newspaper industry as a whole, are challenged to maintain and grow print circulation volume. To the extent recent volume declines cannot be offset by rate increases the Company will realize lower circulation revenue. Circulation volume declines could also result in lower rates and volumes of advertising revenue. As a result, profitability could decline as the Company may be unable to maintain efficiencies in its cost structure.Access to credit may be adversely affected by an uncertain outlook for the newspaper industry and the Company.In January 2013, the Company voluntarily terminated its $25,000 credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) to provide greater financial and operating flexibility and eliminate direct and indirect costs related to the Credit Agreement. If future debt financing is required, uncertainty regarding A. H. Belo or the newspaper industry’s prospective performance may result in unavailable credit or unfavorable financing terms for the Company. These conditions could require the Company to take unplanned cost reduction measures to appropriately conserve cash or result in the inability to take advantage of potential business opportunities.The Company’s potential inability to successfully execute cost control measures could result in total operating costs that are greater than expected.The Company took steps to lower its costs by reducing staff, employee benefits, and implementing general cost control measures. Although the Company continues its cost control efforts, if revenue decline further, the ability to reduce costs to match revenue declines could be limited. If the Company does not achieve expected savings or if operating costs increase due to the creation and development of new products or otherwise, total operating costs may be greater than anticipated.The Company could also experience inflationary pressures from suppliers and be unable to generate additional revenue or additional cost reductions to offset these inflationary pressures. The Company’s inability to offset inflationary pressures could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. The basic raw material for newspapers is newsprint, the cost of which for the last three years represented between approximately 8.0 percent and 9.3 percent of A. H. Belo’s revenue. The price of newsprint historically fluctuated significantly. Consolidation in the North American newsprint industry reduced the number of suppliers and led to paper mill closures and conversions to other grades of paper, which in turn decreased overall newsprint capacity and increased the likelihood of higher prices. A. H. Belo currently purchases most of its newsprint through a purchasing consortium. Significant increases in newsprint costs or the Company’s inability to obtain an adequate supply of newsprint in the future could adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.Recently enacted health care mandates may require the Company to evaluate the scope of health care benefits offered to its workforce and the method in which health care benefits are delivered. These mandates may increase the Company’s and employees’ costs due to expansion of coverage and benefits that companies may be required to offer employees and potential future increases in medical costs.The Company believes that appropriate steps are being taken to control costs. However, if costs are not managed properly, such steps may affect the quality of A. H. Belo’s products and its ability to generate future profits, and could result in impairment to the Company’s goodwill and other long-lived assets.A. H. Belo depends on key personnel and may not be able to operate and grow its business effectively if the Company loses the services of any of its senior executive officers or key operational employees or is unable to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future.A. H. Belo relies on the efforts of its senior executive officers and other management. The success of the Company’s business depends heavily on its ability to retain current management and to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and A. H. Belo may not be able to retain its key personnel. In addition, reductions in staff and in employee benefits could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract and retain key employees. The Company has not entered into employment agreements with key management personnel and does not have “key person” insurance for any of its senior executive officers or other key personnel. A. H. Belo has a change in control severance plan covering key management personnel that is triggered under certain conditions if a change in control occurs.A. H. Belo Corporation 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-KPAGE 9Table of ContentsA. H. Belo’s business may be negatively affected by work stoppages, slowdowns, or strikes by its employees.One of A. H. Belo’s primary newspapers, The Providence Journal, is a party to collective bargaining agreements with unions representing approximately 290 employees. These agreements expire between 2013 and 2016 unless extended. A. H. Belo cannot predict the results of negotiations related to future collective bargaining agreements, whether future collective bargaining agreements will be negotiated without interruptions in the Company’s business, or the possible effect of future collective bargaining agreements on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Company also cannot assume that strikes or work stoppages will not occur in the future in connection with labor negotiations or otherwise. Any prolonged strike or work stoppage could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.Market conditions could increase the funding requirements associated with the Company’s pension plans.On January 1, 2011, A. H. Belo Pension Plans I and II (collectively, the “A. H. Belo Pension Plans”) were established to assume the assets and liabilities transferred from The G. B. Dealey Retirement Pension Plan (the “GBD Pension Plan”) associated with current and former employees of the Company. The Company, as sole sponsor of the A. H. Belo Pension Plans, must meet certain pension funding requirements established by law. Instability in global and domestic capital markets may result in low returns on the assets contributed to the A. H. Belo Pension Plans. Additionally, low yields on corporate bonds may decrease the discount rate, resulting in a higher funding obligation. Although legislation was enacted into law which provided limited funding relief in 2012, as described in the Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10 – Pension and Other Retirement Plans, these conditions could materially increase the funding requirements associated with the A. H. Belo Pension Plans, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s liquidity and financial condition.Adverse results from new litigation or governmental proceedings or investigations could adversely affect A. H. Belo’s business, financial condition and results of operations.From time to time, A. H. Belo and its subsidiaries are subject to litigation, governmental proceedings, and investigations. Current matters include those described under “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Adverse determinations in any of these pending or future matters could require A. H. Belo to make monetary payments or result in other sanctions or findings that could affect adversely the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations.A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers have significant combined voting power and significant influence over its management and affairs.A. H. Belo directors and executive officers hold approximately 58 percent of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock as of December 31, 2012. A. H. Belo’s Series A common stock has one vote per share and Series B common stock has 10 votes per share. Except for certain extraordinary corporate transactions, generally all matters to be voted on by A. H. Belo’s shareholders must be approved by a majority of the voting power of the Company’s outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Certain extraordinary corporate transactions, such as a merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the Company’s assets, or a dissolution, the alteration, amendment, or repeal of A. H. Belo’s bylaws by shareholders, and certain amendments to A. H. Belo’s certificate of incorporation, require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock, voting as a single class. Accordingly, A. H. Belo’s directors and executive officers will have significant influence over the Company’s management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. This ownership may limit other shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, A. H. Belo may take actions that some shareholders do not view as beneficial.Certain members of management, directors, and shareholders may face actual or potential conflicts of interest.A. H. Belo and Belo have two directors in common. Robert W. Decherd serves as the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Belo and as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of A. H. Belo. Mr. Decherd and Dealey D. Herndon, his sister, serve as directors of A. H. Belo and Belo. James M. Moroney III, Executive Vice President of A. H. Belo and the Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of The Dallas Morning News, is their second cousin. Mr. Moroney also serves as a director of Belo. In addition, the management and directors of both companies own common stock in both companies. This ownership overlap and these common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when A. H. Belo’s and Belo’s management and directors face decisions that could have different implications for A. H. Belo and Belo.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.PAGE 10A. H. Belo Corporation 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-KTable of Contents