D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to timely identify or otherwise effectively respond to changing customer preferences, and we may fail to optimize our product offering and inventory position. The drugstore industry in China is rapidly evolving and is subject to rapidly changing customer preferences that are difficult to predict. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and identify customer preferences and adapt our product selection to these preferences. In particular, we must optimize our product selection and inventory positions based on sales trends. We cannot assure you that our product selection, especially the mix of our private label products and third-party branded products and our selections of nutritional supplements and food products, will accurately reflect customer preferences at any given time. If we fail to anticipate accurately either the market for our products or customers’ purchasing habits or fail to respond to customers’ changing preferences promptly and effectively, we may not be able to adapt our product selection to customer preferences or make appropriate adjustments to our inventory positions, which could reduce customer traffic and our sales significantly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our private label products may not achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. We began introducing private label products in September 2005, and sales of private label products accounted for 24.4% of our revenue and 37.0% of our gross profit in 2008. We have increased the number of our private label products as these products generally have higher profit margins than our other similar products. We believe that our success in gaining and maintaining broad market acceptance of our private label products depends on many factors, including: • our product pricing; • our ability to maintain the cost competitiveness of our private label products; • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; • our ability to provide consistent and high quality customer experiences; • publicity or public perception concerning our company, our brand, our products or our competitors or competing products; • whether or not customers develop habits of routinely purchasing and using our private label products; and • our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing customer preferences. We may not achieve or maintain broad market acceptance for our private label products, or products introduced by our competitors are more favorably received than our private label products, or we may fail to respond to customers’ changing preferences promptly and effectively, resulting in decreased customer traffic to our stores or increased inventory costs. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs. Our success depends on our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including pricing strategies implemented in response to competitive pressures and/or to drive demand for our products. Our advertisements are designed to promote our brand, our corporate image and the prices of products available for sale in our stores. Our pricing strategies and value proposition must be appropriate for our target customers. If we are not able to maintain and increase the awareness of our brand, products and services, we may not be able to attract and retain customers and our reputation may also suffer. We expect to incur substantial expenses in our marketing and promotional efforts to both attract and retain customers. However, our marketing and promotional activities may be less successful than we anticipate, and may not be effective at building our brand awareness and customer base. We also cannot assure you that our current and planned spending on marketing activities will be adequate to support our future growth. Failure to successfully execute our advertising, marketing and promotional programs may result in material decreases in our revenue and profitability. If we are unable to optimize management of our distribution centers, we may be unable to meet customer demand. We distribute substantially all of our products to our stores through our national distribution center located near our headquarters in Shenzhen and 12 regional distribution centers located in various regions in China, and we deliver merchandise from these distribution centers to our stores using our own vehicles. In addition, we rented space in Shenyang, Liaoning province in December 2008, to set up a new regional distribution center to support business growth in the nearby areas. The new distribution center in Shenyang is expected to be put into use by the middle of 2009. In order to improve logistic efficiencies, we are working to merge the regional distribution centers in Guangzhou and Shenzhen with the headquarters distribution center located in Shenzhen. The merge is expected to be completed by the middle of 2009. Our ability to meet customer demand may be significantly limited if we do not successfully operate our distribution centers and efficiently conduct our distribution activities, or if one or more of our distribution centers are destroyed or forced to shut down for any reason, including as the result of a natural disaster. Any disruption in the operation of our distribution centers could result in higher costs or longer lead times associated with distributing our products. In addition, as it is difficult to predict accurate sales volume in our industry, we may be unable to optimize our distribution activities, which may result in excess or insufficient inventory, warehousing, fulfillment or distribution capacity. Furthermore, failure to effectively control damage to products during distribution could decrease our operating margins and reduce our profitability. Failure to maintain optimal inventory levels could increase our inventory holding costs or cause us to lose sales, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We need to maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully as well as meet our customers’ expectations. However, we must also guard against the risk of accumulating excess inventory. We are exposed to inventory risks as a result of our increased offering of private label products, rapid changes in product life cycles, customers’ changing preferences, uncertainty of success of product launches, seasonality, and manufacturer backorders and other vendor-related problems. We cannot assure you that we can accurately predict these trends and events and avoid over-stocking or under-stocking products which customers prefer. In addition, demand for products could change significantly between the time product inventory is ordered and the time it is available for sale. When we begin selling a new product, it is particularly difficult to forecast product demand accurately. The purchase of certain types of inventory may require significant lead-time. As we carry a broad selection of products and maintain significant inventory levels for a substantial portion of our merchandise, we may be unable to sell such inventory in sufficient quantities or during the relevant selling seasons. Carrying too much inventory would increase our inventory holding costs, and failure to have a product in our inventory when a customer orders or purchases it could cause us to lose that order or lose that customer, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on the continued service of, and on the ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified and skilled staff, especially regional managers and in-store pharmacists for our stores. Our ability to continue expanding our retail drugstore chain and deliver high quality products and customer service depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified and skilled staff, especially regional managers and in-store pharmacists for our stores. In particular, the applicable PRC regulations require at least one qualified pharmacist to be stationed in every drugstore to instruct or advise customers on prescription drugs. Over the years, a significant shortage of pharmacists has developed due to increasing demand within the drugstore industry as well as demand from other businesses in the healthcare industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract, hire and retain sufficient numbers of skilled regional managers and in-store pharmacists necessary to continue to develop and grow our business. The inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of skilled regional managers and in-store pharmacists could limit our ability to open additional stores, increase revenue or deliver high quality customer service. In addition, competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The centralization of procurement may not help us achieve anticipated savings and may place additional burdens on the management of our supply chain. Our regional Nepstar companies currently handle a substantial portion of the product procurement for the respective drugstores they operate. We plan to increase the centralization of merchandise procurement and replenishment operations and expect to reduce cost of goods sold as a result of volume purchase benefits. However, we may be less successful than anticipated in achieving these volume purchase benefits. In addition, the centralization of merchandise procurement is expected to increase the complexity of tracking inventory, create additional inventory handling and transportation costs and place additional burdens on the management of our supply chain. Furthermore, we may not be successful in achieving the cost savings expected from the renegotiation of certain supplier contracts due to the nature of the products covered by those contracts and the market position of the related suppliers. If we cannot successfully reduce our costs through centralizing procurement, our profitability and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our brand name, trade names, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property are valuable assets. If we are unable to protect them from infringement, our business and prospects may be harmed. As sales of our private label products continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue, we consider our brand name, trade names and trademarks to be valuable assets. Under PRC law, we have the exclusive right to use a trademark for products or services for which such trademark has been registered with the PRC Trademark Office of State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC. However, we may be unable to secure the trademark registrations for which we applied. In addition, our efforts to defend our trademarks against competitors or other violating entities may be unsuccessful and we may not have adequate remedies for any such violation. Moreover, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our brand name or trademarks without authorization. Unauthorized use of our brand name or trademarks by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation, including the perceived quality and reliability of our products. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our know-how and other proprietary information, including pricing, purchasing, promotional strategies, customer lists and/or suppliers lists. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. In addition, confidentiality agreements, if any, executed by the foregoing persons may not be enforceable or provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts could be expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, if our competitors independently develop information that is equivalent to our trade secrets or other proprietary information, it would be even more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business and prospects could be harmed. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others. However, because the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in China are uncertain and still evolving, we may not be successful in prosecuting these cases. In addition, any litigation or proceeding or other efforts to protect our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially harm our business and operating results. Furthermore, the degree of future protection of our intellectual property rights is uncertain and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. If we are unable to protect our trade names, trademarks, trade secrets and other propriety information from infringement, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We rely on licensing arrangements with our affiliated companies to use the trademark “Neptunus” and a number of other trademarks. Any improper use of these trademarks by our licensor or any other third parties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our rights to our trade names and trademarks are the most important factor in marketing our stores and private label products. The trademark “Neptunus,” or “” in Chinese, is owned by Shenzhen Neptunus Group Co., Ltd., or the Neptunus Group, and we have obtained, under a license agreement, the non-exclusive right to use this trademark so long as the trademark is valid. The trademark “Neptunus,” or “Haiwang,” is also used by the Neptunus Group, its subsidiaries and affiliated entities, which are controlled by Simin Zhang, our founder, the chairman of our board of directors and the sole beneficial owner of our controlling shareholder, China Neptunus Drugstore Holding Ltd., or Neptunus BVI. We have also obtained rights to use an aggregate of 546 additional trademarks, including 118 registered trademarks that we have obtained exclusive rights to use, 114 registered trademarks that we have obtained non-exclusive rights to use, and 314 trademarks that are in the process of being registered by subsidiaries of the Neptunus Group. We use these licensed trademarks to develop our private label products. As of December 31, 2008, we have developed 1,455 private label products with these licensed trademarks. If the Neptunus Group, any of its subsidiaries or affiliated entities, or any third party uses the trade name “Neptunus,” or trademarks we use to develop our private labels in ways that adversely affect such trade name or trademark, our reputation could suffer damage, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties which, if successful, could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to use our proprietary information and know-how without infringing third party intellectual property rights. As we increase our sales of private label products, and as litigation becomes more common in China, we face a higher risk of being the subject of claims for intellectual property infringement, invalidity or indemnification relating to other parties’ proprietary rights. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources, may have or may obtain intellectual property protection that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China. Moreover, the defense of intellectual property suits, including trademark infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could cause us to: • pay damage awards; • seek licenses from third parties; • pay ongoing royalties; • redesign our product offerings; or • be restricted by injunctions, each of which could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents We do not possess clear leasehold titles or written agreements providing for usage rights in respect of some of our occupied properties. As of December 31, 2008, we had 2,740 leased properties with an aggregate gross floor area of 340,749 square meters. Approximately 18.0% of these leased properties had defects in their legal titles. Of all of the properties with defects in legal titles, 61,179 square meters were used as drugstores, equivalent to approximately 22.2% of the total gross floor area of our drugstores. The defects in title with respect to these properties generally fall into two categories: (i) the proper property title deeds cannot be obtained from the relevant landlord; and (ii) the identity of the landlord as it appears on the relevant leasing contract does not match the identity of the registered owner as it appears on the property title deeds and a formal approval by the registered owner as noted on the property title deeds for the lease of the property to us cannot be obtained by the relevant parties. The total floor area of properties with the former type of defects in title was 16,307 square meters, or approximately 5.9% of the total gross floor area of our drugstores and with the latter type of defects in title was 44,872 square meters, or approximately 16.3% of the total gross floor area of our drugstores. In the absence of proper title documents, the relevant leasing contracts may not be valid or enforceable. We have been working to cure or cause to be cured, defects in property titles and the related costs have been immaterial. We do not expect to incur material costs to cure outstanding defects in property titles in the future. Although we believe that failure to cure these defects would not result in the loss of a significant number of these leases, if any of such defects of title for these occupied properties is not cured, we may lose our rights to use some of these properties, and our business and operations may be severely disrupted. In addition, 97,568 square meters, or approximately 28.6% of our leased properties, including properties with defects in title, have not been registered as required by applicable PRC regulations. We do not believe that the failure of registration will affect the validity or performance of these leases. We are making efforts to urge our landlords to cooperate with us to complete the required registrations as tenants alone cannot effect registrations under the applicable PRC regulations. However, if the required registrations are not effected, the relevant governmental authorities have the right to request both our landlords and us to complete the registrations and we could be subject to fines, the amount of which differs in various regions in China. We rely on computer software and hardware systems in managing our operations, the capacity of which may restrict our growth and the failure of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our integrated information management system to monitor daily operations of our drugstores and to maintain accurate and up-to-date operating and financial data for compilation of management information. In addition, we rely on our computer hardware and network for the storage, delivery and transmission of our retail system data. Any system failure which causes interruptions to the input, retrieval and transmission of data or service time increases could disrupt our normal operation. Although we believe that our disaster recovery plan is adequate in handling the failure of our computer software and hardware systems, we cannot assure you that we can effectively carry out this disaster recovery plan and that we will be able to restore our operation within a sufficiently short time frame to avoid disruption to our business. As of December 31, 2008, we were in the finishing stage of Phase I implementation of an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. The ERP system integrates company-wide accounting and operating systems and is expected to help improve inventory management and enhance data analysis capabilities. The Phase I implementation of the ERP system is expected to cost approximately RMB30.0 million, and as of December 31, 2008, we have paid RMB23.1 million for the Phase I implementation. We plan to spend approximately RMB50.0 million in total for the implementation of the ERP system and expect the complete implementation of the ERP system to take place in the second half of 2010. However, we may not be able to achieve desirable results from the implementation of the ERP system, and we cannot assure you that the implementation process will be carried out in a timely manner and will not cause any disruption to our operations. Any failure in our computer software and/or hardware systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the capacity of our computer software and hardware systems fails to meet the increasing needs of our expanding operations, our ability to grow may be constrained. 10 Table of Contents As a retailer of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products, we are exposed to inherent risks relating to product liability and personal injury claims. Pharmacies are exposed to risks inherent in the packaging and distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products, such as with respect to improper filling of prescriptions, labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, and unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs. Furthermore, the applicable laws, rules and regulations require our in-store pharmacists to offer counseling, without additional charge, to our customers about medication, dosage, delivery systems, common side effects and other information the in-store pharmacists deem significant. Our in-store pharmacists may also have a duty to warn customers regarding any potential negative effects of a prescription drug if the warning could reduce or negate these effects and we may be liable for claims arising from advice given by our in-store pharmacists. In addition, product liability claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products we sell and as a retailer, we are required to pay for damages for any successful product liability claim against us, although we may have the right under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations to recover from the relevant manufacturer for compensation we paid to our customers in connection with a product liability claim. We may also be obligated to recall affected products. Any product liability claim or product recall may result in adverse publicity regarding us and the products we sell, which would harm our reputation. If we are found liable for product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Furthermore, even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be required to spend significant management, financial and other resources, which could disrupt our business, and our reputation as well as our brand name may also suffer. We, like many other similar companies in China, do not carry product liability insurance. As a result, any imposition of product liability could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not have any business interruption insurance due to the limited coverage of any business interruption insurance in China, and as a result, any business disruption or natural disaster could severely disrupt our business and operations and significantly decrease our revenue and profitability. Our operating results are difficult to predict, and we may experience significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. As a result, you may not be able to rely on period to period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors causing these fluctuations include, among others: • our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing customers, attract new customers and satisfy our customers’ demands; • the frequency of customer visits to our drugstores and the quantity and mix of products our customers purchase; • the price we charge for our products or changes in our pricing strategies or the pricing strategies of our competitors; • timing and costs of marketing and promotional programs organized by us and/or our suppliers, including the extent to which we or our suppliers offer promotional discounts to our customers; • our ability to acquire merchandise, manage inventory and fulfill orders; • technical difficulties, system downtime or interruptions of our ERP system, which we use for product selection, procurement, pricing, distribution and retail management processes; • the introduction by our competitors of new products or services; • the effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate such transactions into our business; • changes in government regulations with respect to pharmaceutical and retail industries; and • current economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. In addition, a significant percentage of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term. As a result, a delay in generating revenue for any reason could result in substantial operating losses. 11 Table of Contents Moreover, our business is subject to seasonal variations in demand. In particular, traditional retail seasonality affects the sales of certain pharmaceuticals and other non-pharmaceutical products. Sales of our pharmaceutical products benefit in the fourth quarter from the winter cold and flu season, and are lower in the first quarter of each year because the Chinese New Year holiday is in the first quarter of each year and our customers generally pay fewer visits to drugstores during this period. In addition, sales of some health and beauty products are driven, to some extent, by seasonal purchasing patterns and seasonal product changes. Failure to manage the increased sales effectively in the high sale season, and increases in inventory in anticipation of increases in sales could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively and failure to do so could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and growth potential. We have grown rapidly since our inception and we anticipate continued expansion of our business to address growth in demand for our products and services, as well as to capture new market opportunities. The continued growth of our business has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demands on our management, operational and other resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: • our ability to continue to identify new store locations and lease new store facilities at acceptable prices; • our ability to optimize product offerings and increase sales of private label products; • our ability to control procurement cost and optimize product pricing; • our ability to control operating expenses and achieve a high level of efficiency, including, in particular, our ability to manage the amount of time required to open new stores and for stores to become profitable, to maintain sufficient inventory levels and to manage warehousing, buying and distribution costs; • information technology system enhancement, including the implementation of our ERP system; • strengthening of financial and management controls; • increased marketing, sales and sales support activities; and • hiring and training of new personnel, including in-store pharmacists and regional managers. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Acquisitions have been and are expected to continue to be a part of our growth strategy, and could expose us to significant business risks. One of our strategies is to grow our business through selective acquisitions, especially in cities where local regulations prohibit the opening of new drugstores within certain distances of an existing drugstore, and in cities that are close to our distribution centers in order to gain operational efficiencies in distribution and leverage our information technology infrastructure over a broader store base. In 2008, we acquired a total of 144 drugstores, consisting of the 68 stores in Ningbo, Zhejiang province, 18 stores in Dongguan, Guangdong province, 40 stores in Qingdao, Shandong province, 16 stores in Chengdu, Sichuan province and 2 stores in Shanghai. 12 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and secure suitable acquisition opportunities. Our ability to consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demands on our resources and, to the extent necessary for larger acquisitions, our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. Moreover, if an acquisition target is identified, the third parties with whom we seek to cooperate may not select us as a potential partner or we may not be able to enter into arrangements on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions, whether or not ultimately consummated, could also require significant diversion of management’s time and resources and potential disruption of our existing business. Future acquisitions could also result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs, and contingent liabilities. We cannot assure you that the expected synergies from completed and future acquisitions will actually materialize. Completed and future acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: • the integration of new operations, services and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • potential unfamiliarity or dissatisfaction with our brand or the merchandise carried in our stores; • the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses; • our inability to generate sufficient revenue to recover costs and expenses of the acquisitions; and • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees or customers. Any of the above could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business and prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is dependent on the continued services of the key members of our management team. The implementation of our business strategy and our future success depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel. We face competition for personnel from other drugstore chains, retail chains, supermarkets, convenience stores, pharmaceutical companies and other organizations. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to attract or retain the personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and prospects. The process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is also often lengthy. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key-man insurance for members of our management team. If we lose the services of any senior management, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management. Each of our executive officers has entered into a confidentiality and non-competition agreement with us regarding these agreements. However, if any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, that any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where the majority of our executive officers reside and hold some of their assets. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us.” 13 Table of Contents Our controlling shareholder has substantial influence over our company and its interests may not be aligned with your interests, and we are exempt from some of the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. As of December 31, 2008, Simin Zhang, our founder and chairman of our board of directors, through Neptunus BVI, beneficially owned 51.4% of our outstanding share capital. As such, Dr. Zhang has substantial influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors, declaration of dividends and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your ADSs as part of a sale of our company and may reduce the price of our ADSs. If we grant additional share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2008, there were options to purchase 4,703,178 of our ordinary shares under our pre-IPO share option scheme and options to purchase 200,000 of our ordinary shares under our 2007 share incentive plan outstanding. In addition, as of May 22, 2009, we are allowed to issue up to 7,880,000 share options, restricted shares or other share-based compensation in the future to our management and other personnel under our 2007 share incentive plan. We account for share-based compensation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment, or SFAS No. 123R, which requires a company to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation based on the fair value of equity-classified awards on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized generally over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. If we grant additional options, restricted shares and other equity incentives to our employees in the future, we could incur significant compensation expenses which could materially reduce our net income, and your investment in our ADSs could be significantly diluted. We may need additional capital and may not be able to obtain it at acceptable terms or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. As of December 31, 2008, we had RMB1,197.9 million (US$175.6 million) in cash, cash equivalents and other bank deposits. Based on our current operating plans, we expect our existing resources, including our current cash and cash flows from operations, to be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash needs, including for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We may, however, need to raise additional funds if our expenditures exceed our current expectations due to changed business conditions or other future developments. Our future liquidity needs and other business reasons could require us to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or securities convertible or exchangeable to our equity securities would result in additional dilution to you. The incurrence of additional indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that restrict our operational flexibility. Our ability to raise additional funds in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for capital-raising activities by pharmaceutical companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. We may be unable to obtain additional capital in a timely manner or on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, the terms and amount of any additional capital raised through issuances of equity securities may result in significant shareholder dilution. 14 Table of Contents If a poll is not demanded at our shareholder meetings, voting will be by show of hands and shares will not be proportionately represented. Shareholder resolutions may be passed without the presence of holders of a majority of our shares in person or by proxy. Voting at any of our shareholder meetings is by show of hands unless a poll is demanded. A poll may be demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by any shareholder present in person or by proxy. If a poll is demanded, each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote for each ordinary share registered in his or her name. If a poll is not demanded, voting will be by show of hands and each shareholder present in person or by proxy will have one vote regardless of the number of shares registered in his or her name. In the absence of a poll, shares will therefore not be proportionately represented in the voting. In addition, the quorum required for our shareholder meetings consists of shareholders who hold at least one-third of our ordinary shares being present at a meeting in person or by proxy. As a result, subject to the requisite majorities, shareholder resolutions may be passed at our shareholder meetings without the presence of holders of a majority of our shares in person or by proxy. Risks Related to Our Industry We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, our revenue and profitability would be materially and adversely affected. The drugstore industry in China is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and highly fragmented. We primarily compete with other retail drugstore chains or independent drugstores. We compete for customers primarily on the basis of our brand name, store location, merchandise selection, prices, and services that we offer. We believe that continued consolidation of the drugstore industry and continued new store openings by chain store operators will further increase competitive pressures in the industry. In addition, in certain of our targeted cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai, where local regulations prohibit the opening of new drugstores within certain distances of an existing store, and where other retail drugstore chains and independent drugstores have occupied many prime locations, we expect to face additional competition in terms of finding suitable new store locations if we expand into these cities. Our primary competitors vary from region to region as most other retail drugstore chains in China operate on a regional basis. We do not consider independent drugstores as our major competitors, although we compete with them on an aggregate basis. Our main competitors in Shenzhen include Shenzhen Accord Pharmacy Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Associate Pharmacy Co., Ltd.; our main competitors in Guangzhou are Guangzhou Dashenlin Chain Drugstore; and our main competitors in Dalian, Hangzhou and Ningbo are Liaoning Chengda Co., Ltd., Hangzhou Wulin Drugstore Co., Ltd. and Ningbo Siming Dayaofang Co., Ltd., respectively. There are significant differences between regions in the PRC due to distinctive demographics, local regulations and shopping habits, among other factors. Over the past decade, we have gained valuable and extensive expertise in operating a cross-region retail drugstore chain, which we believe will continue to give us advantages in competing with other drugstore chains. The drugstore industry in China is intensely competitive, rapidly evolving and highly fragmented. We primarily compete with other retail drugstore chains or independent drugstores. We compete for customers primarily on the basis of our brand name, store location, merchandise selection, prices, and services that we offer. We believe that continued consolidation of the drugstore industry and continued new store openings by chain store operators will further increase competitive pressures in the industry. In addition, in certain of our targeted cities, such as Beijing and Shanghai, where local regulations prohibit the opening of new drugstores within certain distances of an existing store, and where other retail drugstore chains and independent drugstores have occupied many prime locations, we expect to face additional competition in terms of finding suitable new store locations if we expand into these cities. 15 Table of Contents Moreover, we may be subject to additional competition from new entrants to the drugstore industry in China. If the PRC government removes or reduces the barriers for foreign companies to operate majority-owned retail drugstore businesses in China, we could face increased competition from foreign companies. Some of our larger competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as: • greater financial and other resources; • a larger variety of products; • more extensive and advanced supply chain management systems; • greater pricing flexibility; • larger economies of scale and purchasing power; • more extensive advertising and marketing efforts; • greater knowledge of local market conditions; • stronger brand recognition; and • larger sales and distribution networks. As a result, we may be unable to offer products similar to, or more desirable than, those offered by our competitors, market our products as effectively as our competitors or otherwise respond successfully to competitive pressures. In addition, our competitors may be able to offer larger discounts on competing products, and we may not be able to profitably match those discounts. Furthermore, our competitors may offer products that are more attractive to our customers or that render our products uncompetitive. In addition, the timing of the introduction of competing products into the market could affect the market acceptance and market share of our products. Our failure to compete successfully could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and prospects. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence in China may influence the retail industry, consumer preferences and spending patterns. Our business and revenue growth primarily depend on the size of the retail market of pharmaceutical products in China. As a result, our revenue and profitability may be negatively affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence in China. In particular, as we focus our expansion of retail stores in metropolitan markets, where living standards and consumer purchasing power are higher than rural areas, we are especially susceptible to changes in economic conditions, consumer confidence and customer preferences of the urban Chinese population. External factors beyond our control that affect consumer confidence include unemployment rates, levels of personal disposable income, national, regional or local economic conditions and acts of war or terrorism. Changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns. For example, the recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, lower customer spending across China, as well as the close down of factories and other businesses in the Pearl River Delta where a significant portion of our stores are located. As a result, sales at our stores located in these areas have declined and may continue to decline due to the emigration of customers from these areas to other regions in China in search of employment or as customers decrease their purchases of our products as a result of worries about economic conditions or reduced incomes. Although we have taken the initiatives to close unproductive stores in affected areas, our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn is limited given our fixed costs associated with our operations. In addition, the timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, acts of war or terrorism may cause damage to our facilities, disrupt the supply of the products and services we offer in our stores or adversely impact consumer demand. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The retail prices of some of our products are subject to control, including periodic downward adjustment, by PRC governmental authorities. An increasing percentage of our pharmaceutical products, primarily those included in the national and provincial medical insurance catalogs, are subject to price controls in the form of fixed retail prices or retail price ceilings. See “Item 4. Information on the Company — B. Business Overview — Regulation — Price Controls.” In addition, the retail prices of these products are also subject to periodic downward adjustments as the PRC governmental authorities seek to make pharmaceutical products more affordable to the general public. Since May 1998, the relevant PRC governmental authorities have ordered price reductions of thousands of pharmaceutical products. The latest price reduction occurred in December 2007 and affected 47 different pharmaceutical products, eight of which are sold in our stores now. As of December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, 7.5%, 12.7% and 16.4% of the pharmaceutical products we offered were subject to price controls, respectively. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, approximately 3.1%, 4.9% and 4.0% of our revenue was derived from sales of pharmaceutical products that were subject to price controls, respectively. Any future price controls or government mandated price reductions may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including significantly reducing our revenue and profitability. Our retail operations require a number of permits and licenses in order to carry on their business. Drugstores in China are required to obtain certain permits and licenses from various PRC governmental authorities, including GSP certification. We are also required to obtain food hygiene certificates for the distribution of nutritional supplements and food products. We cannot assure you that we have obtained or maintained all required licenses, permits and certifications to carry on our business at all times, and from time to time we may have not been in compliance with all such required licenses, permits and certifications. Moreover, these licenses, permits and certifications are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC governmental authorities and the standards of such renewal or reassessment may change from time to time. We intend to apply for the renewal of these licenses, permits and certifications when required by applicable laws and regulations. Any failure by us to obtain and maintain all licenses, permits and certifications necessary to carry on our business at any time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any inability to renew these licenses, permits and certifications could severely disrupt our business, and prevent us from continuing to carry on our business. Any changes in the standards used by governmental authorities in considering whether to renew or reassess our business licenses, permits and certifications, as well as any enactment of new regulations that may restrict the conduct of our business, may also decrease our revenue and/or increase our costs and materially reduce our profitability and prospects. Furthermore, if the interpretation or implementation of existing laws and regulations changes or new regulations come into effect requiring us to obtain any additional licenses, permits or certifications that were previously not required to operate our existing businesses, we cannot assure you that we would successfully obtain such licenses, permits or certifications. The continued penetration of counterfeit products into the retail market in China may damage our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. There has been continued penetration of counterfeit products into the pharmaceutical retail market in China. Counterfeit products are generally sold at lower prices than the authentic products due to their low production costs, and in some cases are very similar in appearance to the authentic products. Counterfeit pharmaceuticals may or may not have the same chemical content as their authentic counterparts, and are typically manufactured without proper licenses or approvals as well as fraudulently mislabeled with respect to their content and/or manufacturer. Although the PRC government has been increasingly active in combating counterfeit pharmaceutical and other products, there is not yet an effective counterfeit pharmaceutical product regulation control and enforcement system in China. Although we have implemented a series of quality control procedures in our procurement process, we cannot assure you that we would not be sell counterfeit pharmaceutical products inadvertently. Any unintentional sale of counterfeit products may subject us to negative publicity, fines and other administrative penalties or result in litigation against us. Moreover, the continued proliferation of counterfeit products and other products in recent years may reinforce the negative image of retailers among consumers in China, and may severely harm the reputation and brand name of companies like us. The continued proliferation of counterfeit products in China could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 17 Table of Contents We may be subject to fines and penalties if we fail to comply with the applicable PRC laws and regulations governing sales of medicines under the PRC National Medical Insurance Program. Eligible participants in the PRC national medical insurance program, mainly consisting of urban residents in China, are entitled to buy medicines using their medical insurance cards in an authorized pharmacy, provided that the medicines they purchase have been included in the national or provincial medical insurance catalogs. The pharmacy in turn obtains reimbursement from the relevant government social security bureaus. Moreover, the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations prohibit pharmacies from selling goods other than pre-approved medicines when purchases are made with medical insurance cards. We have established procedures to prohibit our drugstores from selling unauthorized goods to customers who make purchases with medical insurance cards. However, we cannot assure you that those procedures will be strictly followed by all of our employees in all of our stores. In the past, there have been incidents involving our store staff selling products other than pre-approved medicines to customers who make payment with medical insurance cards, and we have been subject to negative publicity, fines and other administrative penalties. In 2008, two of our stores were revoked of the licenses as designated national healthcare insurance program reimbursement stores. If any of our drugstores or sales personnel is found to have sold products other than pre-approved medicines to customers who make payment with medical insurance cards, we would be subject to fines or other penalties, and, to the extent we have outstanding claims from government social security bureaus, those claims could be rejected. Either of these cases could damage our reputation as well as have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC regulatory bodies determine that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our business in China do not comply with PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investment in the drugstore industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. Current PRC laws, rules and regulations limit any foreign investor’s ownership of drugstores to 49.0% if the investor owns interests in more than 30 drugstores in China that sell a variety of branded pharmaceutical products sourced from different suppliers. Substantially all of our operations are conducted through Shenzhen Nepstar Pharmaceutical Company Ltd., or Nepstar Pharmaceutical, our wholly owned operating subsidiary in China, and through its contractual arrangements with several of our consolidated entities in China, including the regional Nepstar companies, in each of which Nepstar Pharmaceutical owns a 49.0% of the equity interest, and Shenzhen Nepstar Information and Technology Service Co., Ltd., or Nepstar IT Service, and Shenzhen Nepstar Management Consulting Co., Ltd., or Nepstar Management Consulting, collectively own the remaining 51.0% of equity interests. The respective beneficial owners of Nepstar IT Service, Liping Zhou, and Nepstar Management Consulting, Feng Tu, are two long-time employees of our company who are PRC citizens. We depend on the regional Nepstar companies to operate substantially all of our retail drugstores and generate a substantial portion of our revenue. We have entered into contractual arrangements with the regional Nepstar companies, Nepstar IT Service and Nepstar Management Consulting, and their respective shareholders which provide us with the ability to retain control over these companies and substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of these companies. There are uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of our contractual arrangements. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel, that based on their understanding of the current PRC laws, rules and regulations, the structure for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with the regional Nepstar companies, Nepstar IT Service and Nepstar Management Consulting and their respective shareholders) complies with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and does not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not determine that our corporate structure and contractual arrangements violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. If the PRC regulatory authorities determine that our contractual arrangements are in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, our contractual arrangements will become invalid or unenforceable. In addition, new PRC laws, rules and regulations may be introduced from time to time to impose additional requirements that may be applicable to our contractual arrangements. For example, the PRC Property Rights Law that became effective on October 1, 2007 may require us to register with the relevant government authority the security interests on the equity interests in Nepstar IT Service, Nepstar Management Consulting and each of the regional Nepstar companies granted to us under the equity pledge agreement among Nepstar Pharmaceutical, Nepstar IT Service and Nepstar Management Consulting, and the equity pledge agreement among Nepstar Pharmaceutical, Liping Zhou and Feng Tu. If we are required to register such security interests, failure to complete such registration in a timely manner may result in such equity pledge agreements to be unenforceable against third party claims. 18 Table of Contents If we, Nepstar Pharmaceutical, Nepstar IT Service, Nepstar Management Consulting or the regional Nepstar companies are determined to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required governmental permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC consolidated entities; • discontinuing or restricting the operations of our PRC consolidated entities; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC consolidated entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us or our PRC consolidated entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our initial public offering to finance our business and operations in China; or • imposing fines. The imposition of any of these penalties would severely disrupt our ability to conduct business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We rely on contractual arrangements with the regional Nepstar companies, Nepstar IT Service and Nepstar Management Consulting and their respective shareholders to operate a substantial portion of our businesses, which may not be as effective as exercising operational control through a majority ownership of equity interests. We rely on contractual arrangements with the regional Nepstar companies, Nepstar IT Service and Nepstar Management Consulting and their respective shareholders to operate a substantial portion of our business in China and to provide us with legal and unilateral control over these entities. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — C. Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as exercising control through direct ownership of majority equity interests. Although we do not have a majority ownership interest in the regional Nepstar companies, under the relevant contractual arrangements, we are able to effect changes in the board of directors of these companies, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, as a legal matter, if Nepstar IT Service, Nepstar Management Consulting, any of the regional Nepstar companies or any of their respective shareholders fails to perform its, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce these arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you would be effective. For example, if Nepstar IT Service or Nepstar Management Consulting were to refuse to transfer its equity interest in the regional Nepstar companies to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. Moreover, these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event a dispute arises under these contracts, our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Contractual arrangements we have entered into among our consolidated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or any of our consolidated entities owe additional taxes could have a material adverse impact on our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we have entered into among our consolidated entities are challenged by the PRC tax authorities to be not on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in our PRC tax obligations, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow our tax deduction claims, adjust the profits and losses of our respective PRC consolidated entities for PRC tax law purposes and assess late payment fees and other penalties. Our net income may be materially reduced if our tax liabilities increase or if we are otherwise assessed late payment fees or other penalties. The shareholders of Nepstar IT Services and Nepstar Management Consulting may have conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The shareholders of Nepstar IT Services and Nepstar Management Consulting are long-time employees of our company. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as sole shareholders of Nepstar IT Services and Nepstar Management Consulting, respectively, and as employees of our company may arise. We have entered into a supplemental agreement with each of Liping Zhou and Feng Tu, the respective shareholder of Nepstar IT Services and Nepstar Management Consulting, under which Ms. Zhou and Mr. Tu have warranted that they will not, so long as they remain the shareholders of Nepstar IT Services and Nepstar Management Consulting, serve, invest or assist in any business that may compete with our business or otherwise conduct any business activity that may compete with our business. However, we cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or both of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflict of interests will be resolved in our favor. Any such conflicts of interest may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely principally on dividends paid by our consolidated operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our consolidated PRC entities to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and rely principally on dividends paid by our consolidated operating subsidiaries for cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. In particular, we rely on earnings generated by Nepstar Pharmaceutical as well as dividends and other distributions received by Nepstar Pharmaceutical from the regional Nepstar companies, which are passed on to us through Shenzhen Nepstar Commerce Development Ltd., or Nepstar Commerce, and Shenzhen Nepstar Pharmaceutical Electronic Technologies Ltd., or Nepstar Electronic. If any of our consolidated operating subsidiaries incurs debt in its own name in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict dividends or other distributions on its equity interest to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements Nepstar Pharmaceutical currently have in place with Nepstar IT Service, Nepstar Management Consulting or the regional Nepstar companies in a manner that would materially and adversely affect Nepstar Pharmaceutical’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions on its equity interest. Furthermore, applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payment of dividends by our consolidated PRC entities only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, our consolidated PRC entities are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their statutory surplus reserve fund until the accumulated amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. As a result, our consolidated PRC entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net income to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. As of December 31, 2008, our restricted reserves totaled RMB37.8 million (US$5.5 million) and we had retained earnings available for dividend distribution totaling RMB23.8 million (US$3.5 million). Our restricted reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of our consolidated operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. 20 Table of Contents The application for conversion of Nepstar Commerce and Nepstar Electronic from domestic enterprises to foreign investment enterprises in connection with our restructuring in 2004 was not in full compliance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, which could subject those companies to fines and other penalties and result in a material disruption of our business. Nepstar Commerce and Nepstar Electronic were converted from domestic enterprises into wholly foreign owned enterprises under PRC law in connection with our restructuring in 2004. In their applications for the approval for such conversion that were made to Shenzhen Nanshan Economic and Trade Bureau, Nepstar Commerce and Nepstar Electronic did not disclose that they owned regional Nepstar companies that engage in the drugstore business in various provinces of China. Furthermore, when Nepstar Commerce and Nepstar Electronic became wholly foreign owned enterprises, foreign investment in drugstore retail business was prohibited under PRC law. As a result, the application by Nepstar Commerce and Nepstar Electronic was not made in full compliance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. Although these defects have been corrected in connection with our restructuring in 2007, PRC regulators have the authority to impose fines or other penalties based on past violations by Nepstar Commerce and Nepstar Electronic. In some cases, these regulatory bodies may require the disgorgement of profits or revoke their prior approval. We do not believe these past violations will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, but due to the uncertainty of regulatory enforcements in the PRC, we cannot assure you that Nepstar Commerce or Nepstar Electronic will not be subject to such fines or penalties, including the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the approval previously issued to them, or that such fines or penalties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the degree of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • access to financing; and • the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. In particular, changes in government regulations affecting the drugstore industry in China could have material effects on our results of operations. For example, beginning in 1998, reimbursements under the national medical insurance program have become available for purchases of medicines from designated retail pharmacies. In addition, the PRC government authorities have imposed additional restrictions on the advertisement of drugs in recent years, which we expect to increase drug manufacturers’ reliance on retail drugstores to build brand familiarity among the general public. Furthermore, regulations were passed in 2005 to encourage the separation of pharmacy functions from the medical services offered by hospitals. However, in 2008, the enforcement of a PRC regulation restricting drugstores from selling products with certain steroid ingredients had a negative impact on our revenue growth. Furthermore, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 21 Table of Contents The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in the common law system, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our consolidated entities established in China. These entities are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. However, since many laws, rules and regulations are relatively new and the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of Chinese administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy in China than in more developed legal systems. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Chinese pharmaceutical industry and retail industry, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. We may need to obtain additional governmental approvals to open new drugstores. Our inability to obtain such approvals will have a material adverse effect on our business and growth. According to the Measures on the Administration of Foreign Investment in the Commercial Sector promulgated by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, which became effective on June 1, 2004, a company that is directly owned by a foreign invested enterprise needs to obtain relevant governmental approvals before it opens new retail stores. However, there are no specific laws, rules or regulations with respect to whether it is necessary for a company established by a subsidiary of a foreign invested enterprise to obtain approvals to open new retail stores. We have consulted with the Shenzhen Bureau of Trade and Industry, which was of the view that companies established by a subsidiary of a foreign invested enterprise are not required to acquire governmental approvals to open new retail stores. In addition, our PRC legal counsel also advises us that such approval is not required based on their interpretations of current PRC laws, rules and regulations. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC Ministry of Commerce will not require that such approvals to be obtained. If additional governmental approval is deemed to be necessary and we are not able to obtain such approvals on a timely basis or at all, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs, will be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents PRC rules and regulations may subject our PRC resident shareholders and our PRC share option holders to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our consolidated PRC entities, limit the ability of our consolidated PRC entities to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents that are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch. In addition, relevant SAFE rules also require any share option plan adopted by the offshore special purpose company to be filed with the local SAFE branch when the offshore special purpose company is registered with the local SAFE branch, and such registration must be amended when optionees exercise their share options offshore. Simin Zhang, a PRC resident and the beneficial owner of our current controlling shareholder, has registered with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice, and we are in the process of filing our share option scheme with the local SAFE branch. The failure of our company, Simin Zhang or future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration or filing procedures set forth in the SAFE rules may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into our consolidated PRC entities, limit our consolidated PRC entities’ ability to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, on January 5, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Implementing Rules of Measures for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Implementation Rules. Under the Implementation Rules, PRC citizens who are granted share options by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a qualified PRC agent or the PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share options. We and our PRC citizen employees who have been granted share options, or PRC optionees, are subject to the Implementation Rules when we became an overseas publicly-listed company. If our PRC optionees fail to comply with these rules and regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The PRC Corporate Income Tax Law, or the CIT Law, provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% is applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income is derived from the operations of our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Therefore, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to income tax if we are considered a “non-resident enterprise” under the CIT Law. If we are required under the CIT Law and its implementation regulations to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it may have a material and adverse effect on our net income and materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, and we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The CIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the CIT Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would treat us as a PRC resident enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the CIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. 23 Table of Contents Dividends payable by us to our shareholders and ADS holders and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the CIT Law and implementation regulations, PRC income tax at the rate of 20%, which is further reduced to 10% under the implementation rules or applicable rate specified in a tax treaty, is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% or applicable rate specified in a tax treaty. PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC income tax. If we are required under the CIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs would be materially and adversely affected. Fluctuation in the exchange rates of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar, Euro and other foreign currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we rely on dividends paid to us by our PRC subsidiaries, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the value of, and dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we received from our initial public offering into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition and results of operations. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile, which could result in substantial loss to you. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors, including the following: • announcements of competitive developments; • regulatory developments in China affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other drugstore chain companies; • additions or departures of our executive officers; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ordinary shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Ordinary shares that certain option holders will receive when they exercise their share options will not be available for sale until the expiration of any relevant lock-up periods, subject to volume and other restrictions that may be applicable under Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, certain of our shareholders or their transferees and assignees will have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares, including ordinary shares represented by our ADSs, at a premium. Our articles of association limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares. These preferred shares may have better voting rights than our ordinary shares, in the form of ADSs or otherwise, and could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors decides to issue preferred shares, the price of our ADSs may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents In addition, certain actions require the approval of a supermajority of at least two-thirds of our board of directors which, among other things, would allow our non-independent directors to block a variety of actions or transactions, such as a merger, asset sale or other change of control, even if all of our independent directors unanimously voted in favor of such action, thereby further depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise their rights. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights of our shareholders and may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless either both the rights and any related securities are registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 26 Table of Contents We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law, you may have less protection than if you were a shareholder of a Delaware corporation. Our corporate affairs are governed by our second amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Furthermore, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a Delaware company. We believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for our taxable year ended on December 31, 2008, although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, we believe that we may be a PFIC for our current taxable year or that we may become one in the future, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on the past composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended on December 31, 2008, although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, due to the volatility of the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares in recent market conditions, we believe that we may be a PFIC for our current taxable year or that we may become one in the future. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, our PFIC status for the current taxable year cannot be determined with certainty until after the close of the current taxable year. In particular, our PFIC status may be determined in large part based on the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that the global capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility). Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares may result in our being a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year. In addition, if it is determined that we own directly or indirectly 49.0%, but not the remaining 51.0%, of the equity interests in the regional Nepstar companies for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be treated as a PFIC for our taxable year ended on December 31, 2008, the current taxable year or in the future. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our ADSs or ordinary shares, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. Moreover, non-corporate U.S. investors will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from us in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2011, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. 27 Table of Contents 