ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS In any business venture, there are substantial risks specific to the particular enterprise which cannot be ascertained until a potential acquisition, reorganization or merger candidate has been specifically identi fied; however, at a minimum, our present and proposed business operations will be highly speculative, and will be subject to the same types of risks inherent in any new or unproven venture, and will include those types of risk factors outlined below, among others that cannot now be determined. Risks Relating To Our Business Notice of Default on and Acceleration of our Outstanding Secured Indebtedness; All Assets Pledged as Collateral Security; Possibility of Foreclosure. In 2008, we entered into multiple loan and credit facility agreements with Trafalgar, under which we granted it a first priority security int erest in all of our existing and after-acquired assets, including the stock of our two operating subsidiaries. Although our obligations thereunder are guaranteed by Robert W. Chance, our chief executive officer, he does not have the resources to fulfill such guaranty in the event his is required to do so. On July 7, 2009 Trafalgar sent us a notice of default and accelerated the current due of all of our outstanding indebtedness, which aggregated to approximately $3,500,000 (including interest). We do not have the ability to 12 repay Trafalgar. Therefore, T rafalgar could seek to execute upon our assets, which if successful could cause us to curtail or cease our operations. We have had and expect to continue discussions with Trafalgar seeking to amicably resolve our default as well as our pending litigation against Trafalgar seeking (1) to declare its credit agreements null and void because the effective interest rates charged to us violate the criminal usury provisions of the State of Florida, whose laws govern, and (2) damages. However, if Trafalgar does initiate judicial foreclosure we intend to seek a restraining order against it preventing it from exercising any rights it has as a secured creditor until after the conclusion of our pending litigation. We cannot give any assurance that our attempts to obtain judicial relief will be successful, in default of which there would be a material adverse effect on us and our business, prospects and viability if Trafalgar were to foreclose on our assets. (For further information, see Item 3, Legal Proceedings.) Continuation as a Going Concern Our auditors' report on our audited December 31, 2009 financial statements, and footnote 3 to such financial statements, reflect the fact that with the current economic environment extending collections of our receivables and our inability to obtain additional financing, it would be unlikely for us to continue as a going concern. Our operating revenues are insufficient to fund our operations and our assets already are pledged to Trafalgar as collateral for our estimated current outstanding $3,500,000 (including interest) of indebtedness and in our December 18, 2008 Credit Agreement with Trafalgar (which we believe is unenforceable-see Item 3, Legal P roceedings) we agreed, among other things, not to sell additional common stock without Trafalgar’s prior written consent and not to incur additional indebtedness. The unavailability of additional financing could require us to delay, scale back or terminate our acquisition efforts as well as our own business activities, which would have a material adverse effect on the company and its viability and prospects. As noted above, we plan to increase our revenue by increasing our visibility and the awareness of our company, and our products and services, by engaging in more aggressive sales, marketing and advertising activity. We intend to develop and implement strategies to market ongoing maintenance and service contracts to our current as well as our past customers, and we plan to package these continuing services as part of our industrial automation design and manufacturing services. We also intend to implement cost reduction synergies such as centralizing procurement and estimating activities at our corporate hub using dedicated teams of trained employees, rather than having these tasks performed at our branch offices. However, we can give no assurance that these plans and efforts will be successful. We Need Substantial Additional Capital We have experienced recurring net losses, including net losses of $(4,887,646) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and $(6,181,424) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and we had an accumulated deficit of $(12,959,894) at December 31, 2009. Although at December 31, 2009, we had accounts receivable of $368,098, our receivables are being paid slower (60 to 90 days after invoice compared to 45 days in 2008) and currently we have a severe cash sh ortage, with approximately ($14,700) of cash on hand at April 12, 2010. Our operating revenues are insufficient to fund our operations. Therefore, we require substantial additional funds to finance our business activities on an ongoing basis and to implement our acquisition strategy portraying our company as one able to provide a target company not only with cost savings resulting from centralized estimating, accounting and other corporate functions but also with additional working capital to finance and grow its business. Accordingly, we intend to seek additional financing following the filing of this registration statement. However, our assets already are pledged to Trafalgar as collateral for our estimated current outstanding $3,500,000 (including interest) indebtedness and Trafalgar has issued a notice of default and accelerated our indebtedness, so we cannot expect to obtain any asset-based financing or unsecured debt financing, and in our December 18, 2008 Credit Agreement with Trafal gar which we believe is unenforceable (see Item 3, Legal Proceedings). We agreed, among other things, not to sell additional common stock without Trafalgar’s prior written consent and not to incur additional indebtedness. Nonetheless, because we believe such Agreement is not enforceable, therefore we would be seeking additional equity financing. We have recently entered into an agreement to obtain equity financing (see Item 7, Liquidity and Capital Resources/ Plan of Operation for the Next Twelve Months for additional information), however there can be no assurance that the additional financing we sought under the agreement would be available without certain objectives to be performed by the Company. If the Company cannot fulfill the requirements set forth in the agreement, the Company cannot guarantee its success to provide adequate funding. Any additional funding sought would likely result in a material and substantial dilution of the equity interests of our current shareholde rs and could potentially, scale back or terminate our acquisition efforts as well as our own business activities, which 13 would have a material adverse effect on the company and its viability and prospects. (see also Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data). Operating Losses, Layoffs and Cutbacks There can be no assurance that we will achieve profitability in the near term, over the long term, or ever. Although in each of the following periods our revenues have increased over the corresponding period in the prior year we cannot give any assurance that our revenues will continue to do so. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, we had an operating loss of $(3,125,188) and a net loss of $(4,887,646); for the year ended December 31, 2008, we had an operating loss of $(5,742,018) and a net loss of $(6,181,424). In addition, as a result of insufficient cash flow (our receivables are now being paid within 60 to 90 days, compared to payments within 45 days during 2008), we were forced to lay-off 50% of our operations staff and impose a temporary 20% salary reduction on our employees and a temporary 50% salary reduction on our senior management, although we have paid such cash reductions in shares of our common stock through July 3, 2009, we still owe from July 3, 2009 through the date of this fi ling. As of April 12, 2010 our cash on hand was only approximately $14,700. Our business and growth strategies may never be successful, and we may never be profitable. Fluctuations in Operating Results We expect quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate, depending primarily on the following factors: · Timely payment of our accounts receivable; · Our ability to obtain new business; · Our ability to generate significantly greater revenues than we have been able to generate to date, and to have revenues in such amount as to be able to satisfy our operational overhead, which now is not being met; · Our ability to reduce selling, general and administrative cash expenses, particularly payroll compensation, by issuing stock to alleviate cash constraints, especially considering that our planned expansion by acquisition of other companies will result in increases in operating expenses, including, without limitation, as a result of the employment contracts we seek to enter into with the former owners of these companies; · The cost of components used for the production of control panels; and · The cost of attracting and hiring qualified employees. Risks of Expansion by Acquisition Our business strategy depends in large part on our ability to identify and acquire suitable companies, to expand our current expertise into the markets of our acquired companies, and to capitalize on the expertise of these companies to obtain new business in our current markets. Delays or failures in acquiring new companies would materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of this proposed strategy will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: p> · securing any required approvals from our lender(s) and others; · our ability to effectively integrate an acquired company, including its information systems and personnel; · our ability to retain the services of the key employees of the acquired company; · availability of additional qualified operating personnel; · necessary or unavoidable increases in wages, or unanticipated operating costs; · the possibility of unforeseen events affecting the region particularly in which an acquired company operates; 83; adverse effects on existing business relationships resulting from the performance of an acquired company; and 14 · diversion of management’s attention from operating our business. The acquisition transactions may also result in the following: · issuance of additional stock that would further dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · incurring debt; · assumption of unknown or contingent liabilities; or · negative effects on reported operating results from acquisition-related charges and · amortization of acquired technology, goodwill and other intangibles. Therefore, our business strategy may not have the desired result, and notwithstanding effecting numerous acquisitions we still may be unable to ach ieve profitability or, if profitability should be achieved, to sustain it. Impairment of Goodwill and/or Intangible Assets May Occur Goodwill resulting from our acquisitions of other companies and other intangible assets represent a significant portion of our assets. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, we had goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets of $36,034 and $367,530, respectively. We review these assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If we were to determine that a significant impairment in value of our goodwill or unamortized intangible assets had occurred, we would be required to write of f a substantial portion of such assets, which would negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, and it could adversely impact our stock price. Management of Growth Our strategy anticipates significant growth in the diversity of our operations and in our business, which would place demands on our management and our limited financial and other resources. To manage any such growth, we would be required to attract and train additional qualified managerial, engineering, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If we are unable to effectively manage any such growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Qualified Professionals Our business depends on our ability to hire and retain engineers and technicians with highly specialized skills and experience. Many engineers and technicians obtain post-graduate or professional degrees, and the increased educational time required at the post-graduate level further restricts the pool of engineers and technicians available for employment. Our success also depends in large part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, marketing and sales personnel. We compete for all such personnel with other automation companies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in hiring or retaining such qualified personnel. If we are not able to hire and retain qualified people to fill these positions, our competitive position would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Backlog Not Indicative of Future Results Our backlog consists of contracts that we have received but not yet signed or started, and projects we have started but which have not been completed. We cannot guarantee the revenue projected in our backlog will be realized, or if realized, that it will generate profits. Contractors, subcontractors or end users may cancel or delay a project for reasons beyond our control. The majority of our contracts allow for a cancellation under certain terms and conditions. In the event of a project cancellation, we generally would be reimbursed for our costs, but typically we would have no contractual right to the total revenue expected from any such project as reflected in our backlog. In addition, projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. The current credit and economic environment could significantly impact the 15 financial condition of some end users, resulting in greater risk of delay or cancellation of projects. If we were to experience significant cancellations or delays of projects in our backlog, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Collection Uncertainties on Accounts Receivable We are paid as the work we perform on a project progresses toward completion. The current credit and economic environment has significantly impacted the ability of our contractors to pay amounts due to us, or the ability of end users to pay our contractors, in a timely manner. Although we have had nominal increases in our reserve for doubtful accounts, payments of our accounts receivable have slowed, and our collection s currently are averaging 60 to 90 days after billing, compared to 45 days in fiscal 2008. Additionally, on a majority of our jobs we are required to advance the funds to purchase components or other materials prior to our receipt of an interim progress payment. If we do so, and the project is terminated or our contract is cancelled, we may have difficulty recovering those expenditures from our contractor, subcontractor, or end user. If a contractor, subcontractor or end user becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy protection, the amount recoverable may be less than the amount owed to us, in which case the project could generate a loss instead of a gross profit for us. To try to minimize these collection risks, when we receive a contract we place a lien against the project in order to obtain collateral security for the payments of our receivables; however, we might not have a first priority position, and the value of the collateral could be insufficient to satisfy all lien creditors, which would limi t the amount of our recovery. Although on most of the jobs we receive our contractors or subcontractors are required to post a bond to secure the payments to which we become entitled as a result of the services we perform, there can be no assurance that we will be able to collect from the bonding company. Fixed-Price Contracts Approximately 95% of our revenues, including larger engineered systems projects, are performed under fixed-price contracts. We are responsible for all cost overruns, other than those resulting from customer-approved change orders and certain force majeure (natural disaster) situations. Our actual costs may exceed, and gross profit realized may be less than, the estimates derived f rom our contract prices, for various reasons, including, for example, errors in estimates or bidding; changes in availability and cost of labor and component parts; and reduced productivity. These variations and the risks inherent in engineered systems projects may result in reduced profitability or losses. Depending on the size of a project, variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant negative impact on our operating results and our financial condition. The following table represents the amounts of our revenues which are generated by each of fixed-price and time and materials contacts, and the percentage of our revenues attributable to these contract types: Year Ended December 2009 2008 Project revenue (generally fixed price) $ 3,544,893 95% $ 2,938,231 95% Service revenue (generally time and materials) 192,832 5% 166,988 5% Total revenue $ 3,737,725 100% $ 3,105,219 100% Typically, the material terms of our fixed-price contracts are: (1) percentage of completion method, (2) invoicing terms, (3) deadlines for submittals, (4) wage rates and (5) start time. For time and material contracts, our material terms involve: (a) the start/end date and (b) price quotes for materials and percentage of labor allocated for the job. Revenue from Contracts Realized over Several Months Our revenues are substantially derived from significant contracts that typically are performed over periods of two to four quarters. As a result, our revenue and cash flow may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, depending upon our ability to replace existing contracts with new orders and the extent of the delays, if any, which we may encounter in performing our contacts. 16 Liability for Product Warranties We typically warrant the workmanship and materials used in the equipment and systems we manufacture and install. Failure of the system or equipment to operate properly or to meet specifications may increase our costs by requiring additional engineering resources, replacement of parts or equipment, or service or monetary reimbursement to the end user. To the extent we are unable to make a corresponding warranty claim against the manufacturer of the subject component or software we purchased and installed. Competition We face a variety of competitive challenges from other automa tion companies, many of whom have greater financial and marketing resources than we do and may be able to adapt to changes in consumer preferences or retail requirements more quickly, devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products or adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we can. Contracts for our products and services are generally awarded on a competitive basis. Historically, our markets have been very competitive in terms of the number of suppliers providing alternative products and technologies. The most important factors considered by our customers in awarding contracts include price, the availability and capabilities of our equipment, our ability to meet the project schedule, our reputation and name recognition, our experience and our safety record. If our competitors can overshadow us in these respects, or possess industry certifications (such as a “control system integrator” as awarded by the CSIA, a certification we do not have) we may be at a disadvantage when bidding on a project, and our operating results could suffer. Control by Management; Anti-Takeover Considerations Our company is effectively controlled by Management, specifically Messrs. Robert W. Chance, Jody R. Hanley, Manuel Ruiz, Brandon Spiker, David Marlow, and Jeremy Briggs (“Management”), who collectively own approximately 38% (as of December 31, 2009) of our outstanding common stock. While we intend to pursue our business strategy as set forth herein, Management has broad discretion to adjust the application and allocation of our cash and other resources, whe ther in order to address changed circumstances and opportunities or otherwise. As a result of such discretion, our success is substantially dependent upon their judgment. In addition, Management is able to elect our board of directors and to cause the directors to declare or refrain from declaring dividends, to increase our authorized capital, to authorize one or more series of preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights holders of our common stock, issue additional shares of capital stock and generally to direct our affairs and the use of all funds available to us. Any such preferred stock also could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Any issuance of common or preferred stock could substantially dilute the percentage ownership of the company held by our current stockholders. Such concentra tion of ownership may have the additional effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the company. Also, this controlling interest may have a negative impact on the market price of our common stock by discouraging third-party investors. Dependence on Management Our success is dependent upon the active participation of our Management. We have entered into employment agreements (i) with Messrs. Chance, Hanley and Ruiz, for an initial two-year term which expired February 14, 2009, and such agreements now are in their successive automatic one-year renewal periods, and each employee may elect not to renew his contract on notice given to us at least 30 days before the renewal date, and (ii ) with Messrs. Spiker and Marlow which expire on December 31, 2010. In addition, we do not maintain any "key man" insurance on any of their lives. In the event we should lose the services of any of their people, our business would suffer materially. There can be no assurance that we would be able to employ qualified person(s) on acceptable terms to replace them. 17 Dependence on Leases of Space and Manufacturing Equipment and Space We lease from Jody Hanley, one of our executive officers and the owner of approximately 10% (as of April 12, 2010) of our common stock, on a month-to-month basis a substantial amount of the equipment we use and require to manufacture our control panels. Under our lease with Mr. Hanley, as the lessee we are obligated to maintain the leased equipment and repair it in the event of a malfunction. As a result of these lease terms, we could decide it would be more cost-effective to purchase comparable equipment or to lease newer or different equipment from another lessor, possibly at a higher price, which might result in a substantial cash investment, or increased ongoing obligations which would increase our operating expenses. Also, it is possible that companies acquired in the future will lease a portion of the equipment used in their operati ons, which leases may be month-to-month, or may contain limited or no renewal options or escalating or fair market renewal clauses. If we do not have sufficient cash on hand to maintain, repair and/or purchase the manufacturing equipment we need, our operations and prospects could suffer a materially and adversely. All of our offices and other facilities now are, and hereafter likely will be, leased from third parties. These leases are for fixed terms or month-to-month, and the fixed term leases contain limited renewal options with escalating or fair market renewal clauses. There can be no assurance that these leases can be continued or renewed or, if they are renewed, that the renewals can be obtained at lease rates that permit our facilities to be operated at a profit. Relocation of these facilities would likely be costly, and such expenses could limit our profitability. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers Our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of components from third party suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: · The cost of these items might increase, for reasons such as inflation and increases in the price of the precious metals, if any, or other internal parts used to make such item s, which could cause our costs to complete a job to exceed the estimate we used to create our bid; · Poor quality could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our control panels; and · A shortage of components could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could prevent us from obtaining, or hinder our ability to obtain, new business, which could jeopardize our ability to comply with the requirements of our contracts. Any of these uncertainties also could adversely affect our business reputation and otherwise impair our profitability and ability to compete. Sensitivity to Economic and Other Trends in the Southwestern United States Our operations will be limited by the conditions and trends in the areas in which we operate, and currently we only conduct business in the southwestern United Sates, particularly in Nevada, Arizona, and Utah. As a result, we are particularly susceptible to adverse trends and economic conditions in this area, including its economic and labor markets. In addition, because we purchase components from suppliers located throughout the United States, other regional occurrences such as local strikes, energy shortages or increases in energy prices, droughts, hurricanes, fires or other natural disasters, as well as general economic trends and credit conditions, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. 18 Risks Related to Our Industry in General Exposure to Product and Professional Liability Claims In the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to product and professional liability claims alleging that products we sold or services we provided failed or had adverse effects. We maintain liability insurance at a level which we believe to be adequate. A successful claim in excess of the policy limits of the liability insurance could materially adversely affect our business. As a user of products manufactured by others, we believe we may have recourse against the manufacturer in the event of a product liability claim. There can be no assurance, however, that recourse against a manufacturer would be successful, or that any manufacturer will maintain adequate insurance or otherwise be able to pay such liability. Government Regulation - Environmental Cleanup Costs In our control panel fabrication operations, we generate and manage hazardous wastes. These include: waste solvents; waste paint; waste oil; wash-down wastes; and sandblasting wastes. We take appropriate steps to identify and address environmental issues before acquiring manufacturing space or facilities and to use industry-accepted operating and disposal practices regarding the management and disposal of hazardous wastes. Nevertheless, we or others may have released hazardous materials on such properties or in other locations where hazardous wastes have been taken for disposal. We may be required by federal, state or local environmental laws to remove hazardous wastes or to remediate sites where they have been released. We could also be subjected to civil and criminal penalties for violations of those la ws. Our costs to comply with these laws may adversely affect our earnings. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 