ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS In any business venture, there are substantial risks specific to the particular enterprise which cannot be ascertained until a potential acquisition, reorganization or merger candidate has been specifically identified; however, at a minimum, our present and proposed business operations will be highly speculative, and will be subject to the same types of risks inherent in any new or unproven venture, and will include those types of risk factors outlined below, among others that cannot now be determined. 6 Risks Relating To Our Business Continuation as a Going Concern Our auditors' report on our audited December 31, 2013 and 2012 financial statements, and Note 3 to such financial statements, reflect a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have begun to expand our operations purely through acquisition in 2014 and will continue to acquire in the foreseeable future. We will be carefully managing our overhead to maximize the effects of profitable acquisitions. However, we can give no assurance that these plans and efforts will be successful. On February 24, 2014, the Company entered into a purchase and sale agreement with JD. This is the first of several anticipated acquisitions that NAS has as a part of its growth strategy. The purchase of JD provides the Company a means to cure our cash shortage and eliminate our net losses. As such the purchase is the first step to continue as a going concern. We Need Additional Capital In the past we have experienced recurring net losses, including net losses of $(280,596) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, and we had an accumulated deficit of $(16,094,605) at December 31, 2013. We have a cash shortage, with approximately $85,000 of cash on hand at April 11, 2014. Therefore, we require additional funds to finance our business activities on an ongoing basis and to implement our acquisition strategy portraying our company as one able to provide a target subsidiary not only with cost savings results but also with additional working capital to finance and grow the business. Risks of Expansion by Acquisition Our business strategy depends in large part on our ability to identify and acquire suitable companies, to expand our current expertise into the markets of our acquired companies, and to capitalize on the expertise of these companies to obtain new business in our current markets. Delays or failures in acquiring new companies would materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of this proposed strategy will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · securing any required approvals from our lender(s) and others; · our ability to effectively integrate an acquired company, including its information systems and personnel; · our ability to retain the services of the key employees of the acquired company; · availability of additional qualified operating personnel; · necessary or unavoidable increases in wages, or unanticipated operating costs; · the possibility of unforeseen events affecting the region particularly in which an acquired company operates; · adverse effects on existing business relationships resulting from the performance of an acquired company; and · diversion of management’s attention from operating our business. The acquisition transactions may also result in the following: · issuance of additional stock that would further dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · incurring debt; · assumption of unknown or contingent liabilities; or · negative effects on reported operating results from acquisition-related charges and · amortization of acquired technology, goodwill and other intangibles. Therefore, our business strategy may not have the desired result, and notwithstanding effecting numerous acquisitions we still may be unable to achieve profitability or, if profitability should be achieved, to sustain it. 7 Decreases in construction, industrial activities could adversely affect our revenues and operating results by decreasing the demand for our equipment and prices we can charge. Our products and services provided by JD are used primarily in non-residential construction activity, industrial activity and the oil and gas industry. The economic downturn and the resulting decreases in construction and industrial activities in the United States has adversely affected our revenues and operating results and may further decrease the demand for our equipment and the prices we can charge. Certain factors that may cause weakness, either temporary or long-term, in the construction industry included · weakness in the economy, the onset of a recession or a prolonged recession; · an increase in interest rates; · lack of available financing to fund development projects; · reductions in corporate spending for plants and facilities or government spending for infrastructure projects; · adverse weather conditions and natural disasters; · terrorism or hostilities involving the United States; · and an increase in the cost of construction materials. Our debt exposes us to risks Our indebtedness has the potential to affect us adversely in many ways. For example, it will or could: · increase our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; · require us to devote a substantial portion of our cash flow to debt service, reducing funds available for other purposes or otherwise constrain our financial flexibility; · affect our ability to obtain additional financing, particularly because substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests relating to existing indebtedness; or · decrease our profitability or cash flow. Also, if we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will be forced to seek alternatives that may include: · reducing or delaying capital expenditures; · limiting our growth; · seeking additional capital; · selling assets; or · restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. If we adopt an alternative strategy, it may not be successful and we may still be unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Control by Management and Directorship Our company is effectively controlled by Management, specifically Messrs. Robert W. Chance, Jeremy Briggs, Jason Jensen, and David Gurr (“Management”), who collectively own approximately 26.55% (as of April 11, 2014) of our outstanding common stock, and Messrs. Sean Sego, Jim Gunn, Kevin Brown, and Tom Sego, who hold positions on our board of directors as independent directors which complies with NASDAQ Rule 5605(a)(2) and own 7.4% of the Company’s outstanding common stock for a total controlled ownership of 33.95%. While we intend to pursue our business strategy as set forth herein, Management has broad discretion to adjust the application and allocation of our cash and other resources, whether in order to address changed circumstances and opportunities or otherwise. As a result of such discretion, our success is substantially dependent upon their judgment. In addition, Management is able to elect our board of directors and to cause the directors to declare or refrain from declaring dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights holders of our common stock, issue additional shares of capital stock and generally to direct our affairs and the use of all funds available to us. Any such preferred stock also could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Any issuance of common or preferred stock could substantially dilute the percentage ownership of the Company held by our current stockholders. 8 Dependence on Management Our success is dependent upon the active participation of our Management. We have entered into employment agreements (i) with Mr. Chance, for an initial two-year term, which expired February 14, 2009, and continues annually thereafter, and (ii) with Mr. Briggs which expired on December 31, 2012, where he continued his services as a consultant. As of April 2013, he restarted his employment with the Company. In addition, we do not maintain any "key man" insurance on any of their lives. In the event we should lose the services of any of their people, our business would suffer materially. There can be no assurance that we would be able to employ qualified person(s) on acceptable terms to replace them. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers Our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of components from third party suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: · The cost of these items might increase, for reasons such as inflation and increases in the price of the precious metals, if any, or other internal parts used to make such items, which could cause our costs to complete a job to exceed the estimate we used to create our bid; · Poor quality could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our product; and · A shortage of components could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could prevent us from obtaining, or hinder our ability to obtain, new business, which could jeopardize our ability to comply with the requirements of our contracts. Any of these uncertainties also could adversely affect our business reputation and otherwise impair our profitability and ability to compete. Risks Related to Our Industry in General Exposure to Product and Professional Liability Claims In the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to product and professional liability claims alleging that products we sold or services that we provided failed or had adverse effects. We maintain liability insurance with operations performing at JD. The coverage is at a level which we believe to be adequate. A successful claim in excess of the policy limits of the liability insurance could materially adversely affect our business. As a user of products manufactured by others, we believe we may have recourse against the manufacturer in the event of a product liability claim. There can be no assurance, however, that recourse against a manufacturer would be successful, or that any manufacturer will maintain adequate insurance or otherwise be able to pay such liability. Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for services. These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry’s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry’s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines, as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The prices for oil and natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including: · demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (“OPEC”) to set and maintain production levels for oil · oil and gas production levels by non-OPEC countries · governmental policies and subsidies · weather conditions The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. However, recent operational increases in the domestic oil and gas industry may offset the effects of the economic downturn in that industrial sector; it is currently unknown whether this will lead to a sustained increase in demand for our equipment and services. 9 Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations. We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified individuals to provide services to the site pads. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations. We must comply with numerous environmental and occupational health and safety regulations that may subject us to unanticipated liabilities. Our facility and operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental and occupational safety and health requirements, including those relating to discharges of substances into the air, water and land, the handling, storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and the cleanup of properties affected by pollutants. We do not anticipate any material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or competitive position as a result of our efforts to comply with these requirements. However, if we violate environmental laws or regulations, we may be held liable for damages and the costs of remedial actions, and could be subject to fees and penalties. We may violate or incur liability under environmental laws and regulations in the future as a result of human error, newly discovered noncompliance, contamination or other causes. These violations or liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under some environmental laws and regulations, we may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances located on or emanating from the site or facility. These laws and regulations often impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances. We may incur liability in connection with the use, management and disposal of these substances. We use hazardous materials such as petroleum products for fueling our equipment and vehicles and solvents to clean and maintain equipment and vehicles. We incur expenses associated with using, storing and managing these materials in compliance with environmental requirements. We also generate and must manage in accordance with applicable environmental laws and regulations certain used or spent materials such as used motor oil, radiator fluid and solvents. We often seek to reuse, recycle or dispose of these spent materials at offsite disposal facilities in accordance with environmental laws and regulations. We could become liable under various federal, state and local laws and regulations for environmental contamination at off-site facilities where our waste has been disposed of, regardless of whether the waste was disposed of in compliance with environmental requirements. Environmental and safety requirements may become stricter or be interpreted and applied more strictly in the future. In addition, we may be required to indemnify other parties for adverse environmental conditions that are now unknown to us. These future changes or interpretations, or the indemnification for such adverse environmental conditions, could result in environmental compliance or remediation costs not anticipated by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Fluctuations in fuel costs or reduced supplies of fuel could harm our business. One of our competitive advantages is the mobility of our fleet. We could be adversely affected by limitations on fuel supplies or increases in fuel prices that result in higher costs of transporting equipment from location to location. Severe weather conditions may affect our operations. Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of our service activities to these site pads. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 