Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in and incorporated into this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to our Pending Merger with Old Line Bancshares, Inc. We may be unable to obtain satisfaction of all conditions to complete our merger with Old Line Bancshares, including the approval of our stockholders, in the anticipated timeframe. As discussed above, on September 10, 2012, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Old Line Bancshares pursuant to which WSB will be merged with and into Old Line Bancshares, with Old Line Bancshares being the surviving company. Completion of the Merger is contingent upon customary closing conditions, including approval of the Merger Agreement by our stockholders and approval of the Merger Agreement and the merger by Old Line Bancshares’ stockholders. If 22 Table of Contents the stockholders do not approve the merger and/or Merger Agreement at the special stockholder meetings, the Merger will not be consummated. Completion of the Merger is also conditioned upon customary closing conditions. Although WSB and Old Line Bancshares have agreed in the Merger Agreement to use reasonable best efforts to consummate the merger, the other conditions to the merger may fail to be satisfied. In addition, satisfying the conditions to, and completion of, the merger may take longer than, and could cost more than, we expect. Any delay in completing the merger may adversely affect the benefits that WSB and Old Line Bancshares expect to achieve from the merger and the integration of our businesses. In addition, failure to complete the merger may adversely affect Old Line Bancshares. Failure to complete the merger could negatively impact our stock price and future businesses and financial results SB. If the merger is not completed, our ongoing business may be adversely affected we will be subject to several risks, including the following: · As noted above we may be required, under certain circumstances, to pay Old Line Bancshares a termination fee of $1,750,000 under the merger agreement; · We will be required to pay certain costs relating to the merger, whether or not the merger is completed, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and printing fees; · Under the merger agreement, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the merger, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies; and · Matters relating to the merger have required and may require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial WSB as an independent company, and WSB and The Washington Savings Bank will remain subject to the provisions of the agreements with the OCC and Federal Reserve Board, respectively, described in “Item 1. Business — Supervision and Regulation — General.” In addition, if the merger is not completed, we may experience negative reactions from the financial markets and from our customers and employees. We also could be subject to litigation related to any failure to complete the merger or to enforcement proceedings commenced against us to perform our obligations under the Merger Agreement. If the merger is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that the risks described above will not materialize and will not materially affect our business, financial results and stock price. The Merger Agreement limits our ability to pursue alternative transactions to the merger and requires us to pay a termination fee if we do. The Merger Agreement prohibits WSB and our directors, officers, representatives and agents, subject to narrow exceptions, from initiating, encouraging, soliciting or entering into discussions with any third party regarding alternative acquisition proposals. The prohibition limits our ability to pursue offers from other possible acquirers that may be superior to the pending merger with Old Line Bancshares from a financial point of view. If we receive an unsolicited proposal from a third party that is superior from a financial point of view to that made by Old Line Bancshares and the Merger Agreement is terminated, we would be required to pay a 23 Table of Contents termination fee of $1,750,000. This fee makes it less likely that a third party will make an alternative acquisition proposal. If the merger is completed, Old Line Bancshares may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger. Because a portion of the merger consideration to be paid to our stockholders in the merger in exchange for their shares of WSB common stock consists of Old Line Bancshares common stock, realization of the anticipated benefits in the merger for those who receive Old Line Bancshares common stock in the merger will depend, in part, on the combined company’s ability to successfully integrate the businesses and operations of Old Line Bancshares and us. The combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating its business practices, operations and support functions. The success of the merger will depend, in part, on Old Line Bancshares’ ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining the businesses of Old Line Bancshares and WSB. To realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings, however, Old Line Bancshares must successfully combine the businesses of Old Line Bancshares and WSB. If Old Line Bancshares is unable to achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. Old Line Bancshares and WSB have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of key depositors or other bank customers, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect Old Line Bancshares’ and WSB’s ability to maintain their relationships with their respective clients, customers, depositors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. Integration efforts between the two companies may, to some extent, also divert management attention and resources. These integration matters could have an adverse effect on each of Old Line Bancshares and WSB during such transition period. If the merger is not completed, we will have incurred substantial expenses without realizing the expected benefits. We have incurred substantial expenses in connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement and the merger. The completion of the merger depends on the satisfaction of specified conditions, including the approval of the stockholders of Old Line Bancshares and WSB. There is no guarantee that these conditions will be met. If the merger is not completed, these expenses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition because we would not have realized the expected benefits of the merger. Because the aggregate merger consideration is subject to adjustment, our stockholders will not know until the effective time of the merger the value of the consideration they will receive in the merger. Upon completion of the merger, each share of WSB common stock will be converted into the right to receive merger consideration consisting of shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock and/or cash pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. The value of the aggregate merger consideration to be received by WSB stockholders will be adjusted as provided in the Merger Agreement for certain operating losses, asset quality changes, changes in the value of 24 Table of Contents certain investment securities and merger-related expenses incurred by WSB. Assuming there are no adjustments to the aggregate merger consideration, the value of the per-share cash consideration would be $6.09 and the exchange ratio with respect to the per-share stock consideration, based on 8,016,607 shares of WSB common stock outstanding as of the date hereof, would be 0.5585. In addition, the per-share merger consideration will be reduced if the aggregate merger consideration is adjusted, however, and these calculations will not be completed until the closing of the merger. Further, the exchange ratio will not be adjusted if the average price of Old Line Bancshares common stock, as determined pursuant to the Merger Agreement, decreases, although, as discussed below, WSB can terminate the merger agreement if the average price falls below $8.14 and Old Line Bancshares does not increase the merger consideration. As a result, the value of shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock that a WSB stockholder receives in the merger will decline correspondingly with declines in the average price of Old Line Bancshares common stock prior to and as of the date the merger consideration is received. Accordingly, at the time of the special meeting of WSB stockholders to vote to approve the merger and at the time stockholders must elect what form of consideration they want in the merger, WSB stockholders will not know or be able to calculate the amount of the consideration they will receive, the exchange ratio that will be used to determine the number of shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock that they would receive upon completion of the merger, or the value of any shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock they would receive upon completion of the merger. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in the businesses, operations and prospects of Old Line Bancshares and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond Old Line Bancshares’ control. You should obtain current market quotations for shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock. WSB has the option, but is not required, to terminate the merger agreement if the average price of the Old Line Bancshares common stock falls below $8.14, although WSB does not have this option if Old Line Bancshares, in its sole discretion, increases the aggregate merger consideration to at least $40.8 million (subject to adjustment) as set forth in the Merger Agreement. We cannot predict at this time whether or not our board of directors would exercise its right to terminate the Merger Agreement if these conditions were met. The Merger Agreement does not provide for a resolicitation of WSB stockholders in the event that the conditions are met and our board nevertheless chooses to complete the transaction. Our board of directors has made no decision as to whether it would exercise its right to terminate the Merger Agreement. In considering whether to exercise its right to terminate the Merger Agreement, the board of directors would take into account all the relevant facts and circumstances that exist at the time and would consult with our financial advisor and legal counsel. Our stockholders may not receive the form of merger consideration that they elect. Depending on the elections made by all our stockholders, certain stockholders who elect to receive cash consideration may instead receive shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock for all or a portion of their shares of WSB common stock, and some stockholders who elect to receive the stock consideration may instead receive cash for all or a portion of their shares of WSB common stock. 25 Table of Contents If WSB stockholders oversubscribe for the cash portion of the merger consideration, those WSB stockholders electing to receive cash will have the amount of cash they selected reduced and will receive all or a portion of their consideration in the form of shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock. Similarly, if WSB stockholders oversubscribe for the Old Line Bancshares common stock portion of the merger consideration, those WSB stockholders electing to receive shares of Old Line Bancshares common stock will have the amount of common stock they selected reduced and will receive all or a portion of their consideration in the form of cash. Accordingly, at the time WSB stockholders vote on the proposal to approve the merger agreement, they will not know the form of merger consideration that they will receive, regardless of their intended election. Pending litigation related to the merger may delay or prevent the merger and could cause Old Line Bancshares and WSB to incur significant costs and expenses. As discussed under “Legal Proceedings,” Rosalie Jones, both individually and on behalf of a putative class of WSB Holdings’ stockholders, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court for Prince George’s County, Maryland, against WSB and its directors as well as Old Line Bancshares. The complaint asks the Court to enjoin the merger based on allegations that, among others things, the merger consideration to be paid to stockholders of WSB is inadequate and, in approving that consideration and the other terms of the merger agreement, the directors of WSB breached their fiduciary duties to stockholders. If the merger is consummated prior to the time these claims are adjudicated, then the plaintiff has asked the Court to rescind the merger or award rescissory damages to the plaintiff and the other members of the putative class of stockholders. While the defendants have entered into a memorandum of understanding with the plaintiff that contemplates a settlement between the parties (which must be approved by the court), there can be no assurance that the parties will enter into a stipulation of settlement or, if they do, that the court will approve any proposed settlement, or that any eventual settlement will be under the same terms as those contemplated by the memorandum of understanding. If the parties do not enter into a stipulation of settlement or the court does not approve such a stipulation of settlement, then this litigation could delay or even prevent the merger and could cause WSB to incur significant legal fees and other costs to defend the claims, which could reduce the aggregate merger consideration that will be payable to stockholders of WSB if and when the merger is consummated and/or adversely impact the financial condition and results of operations of WSB and Old Line Bancshares, both before and after the merger. No assurance can be given that Old Line Bancshares, WSB or WSB’s directors would be successful in the defense of these claims. Risks Related to Our Business If economic conditions should further deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. There has been significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital markets since 2007. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including further decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, sustained adverse employment 26 Table of Contents conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Further, because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate related loans, additional decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans in our portfolio. As discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report, we have experienced increasing pressure on our margins caused by the lower Federal Reserve Board interest rates and the significant slowdown in loan demand resulting from the stresses in the economy, which included sustained declines in the housing and financial and capital markets over the past five years. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we had $3.0 million in net loan charge-offs, or 1.66% of total loans held for investment. Impaired loans, which includes loans that are 90 days past due, nonaccrual loans and troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”) renegotiated loans, were $33.7 million or 18.8% of loans held for investment at December 31, 2012 and $31.3 million or 14.8% of loans held for investment at December 31, 2011. Impaired loans at December 31, 2012 consisted of approximately $19.7 million in non-accrual loans and approximately $22.7 million restructured loans, which included approximately $9.7 million in non accrued status. Although there continues to be evidence of improvement in the economy, it remains unclear when economic conditions will improve to an extent that will impact our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans and demand for loans overall, and therefore when these negative trends in our loan portfolio will reverse. Although signs of stability have emerged, we expect that the business environment in the State of Maryland and the entire United States will continue to present challenges for the foreseeable future. Continued declines, or even ongoing sustention of recent declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. As a result, our future earnings continue to be susceptible to further negative or deteriorating economic conditions which may continue to negatively affect our revenues, net income and liquidity. If U.S. credit markets and economic conditions do not significantly improve or further deteriorate, our liquidity could be adversely affected. We are required to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations. We must also seek to maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our lending and investment operations and repay our outstanding liabilities as they become due. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by the current environment of economic uncertainty reducing business activity as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the financial system in the recent past, concerns regarding U.S. debt levels and related governmental actions, including potential tax increases and cuts in government spending, and continuing economic problems in Europe including concerns over debt levels. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past five years, with falling real estate prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset value write-downs by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and investment banks. These investment write-downs have caused financial institutions to seek additional capital. If adverse conditions continue or worsen, we may be required to raise additional capital as well to maintain adequate capital levels or to otherwise finance our business. Such capital, however, may not be available when we need it or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. 27 Table of Contents Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Further, if we raise capital by issuing stock, the holdings of our current stockholders would be diluted. Our failure to meet any applicable regulatory guideline related to our lending activities or any capital requirement otherwise imposed upon us or to satisfy any other regulatory requirement could subject us to certain activity restrictions or to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the regulatory authorities, including limitations on our ability to pay dividends or pursue acquisitions, the issuance by regulatory authorities of a capital directive to increase capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC, our current chartering authority (see risk factor below), the Federal Reserve Board and by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the DIF and depositors and are not intended for the protection of holders of our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Further, regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth. Because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, we cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact our operations. In light of the performance of and government intervention in the financial sector, we fully expect there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions’ regulatory agencies in the foreseeable future. Any changes in regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material adverse impact on our operations, and we cannot currently predict the impact of any such potential changes. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could increase our costs, limit our ability to pursuant certain business opportunities, increase compliance challenges, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and the Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. The Dodd-Frank Act may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, represents a comprehensive overhaul of the U.S. financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the new CFPB, included provisions that impact corporate governance and executive compensation disclosure by all SEC reporting companies, impose new capital requirements on bank and thrift holding companies, allow financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts, broaden the base for FDIC insurance assessments, impose additional duties and limitations on mortgage lending activities and restrict how mortgage brokers and loan originators may be compensated, 28 Table of Contents included additional mortgage origination provisions including risk retention, and modified many other regulations applicable to insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also eliminated the OTS, resulting in the Bank being regulated by the OCC and WSB being regulated by the Federal Reserve Board as of July 21, 2011. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the CFPB and other federal agencies to implement many new and significant rules and regulations to implement its various provisions. There are many regulations under the Dodd-Frank act that have not yet been proposed or adopted. We will not know the full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business for years until regulations implementing the various provisions of the statute are adopted and implemented. As a result, we cannot at this time predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business, operations or financial condition. However, compliance with these new laws and regulations may require us to make changes to our business and operations, impose on us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes will also likely result in additional costs and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities and may decrease revenues by, for example, limiting the fees we can charge, any of which may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Further, if the industry responds to provisions allowing financial institutions to pay interest on business checking accounts by competing for those deposits with interest-bearing accounts, this will put some degree of downward pressure on our net interest margin. The new duties to be imposed on mortgage lenders, including a duty to determine the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and a requirement on mortgage securitizers to retain a minimum level of economic interest in securitized pools of certain mortgage types, may decrease the demand for mortgage loans as well as our ability to sell such loans into the secondary market, which would reduce both our interest and non-interest income, especially in light of our renewed focus on mortgage loans. We may also experience increased expenses as a result of having a different regulator for each of WSB and the Bank and as a result of switching regulators. Any of these consequences, as well as the failure to comply with new requirements or any future changes in laws or regulations, may adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. For a more detailed description of the Dodd-Frank Act, see “Supervision and Regulation—The Dodd-Frank Act.” Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses. We offer a variety of loans including commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, home equity loans and consumer loans. We secure many of our loans with real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Maryland suburbs of Baltimore and Washington, D.C. While we believe our credit underwriting adequately considers the underlying collateral in the evaluation process, continued or further weakness in the real estate market could adversely affect our customers, which in turn could adversely impact us. Further, commercial lending generally carries a higher degree of credit risk than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors including larger loan balances, dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, or loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. We may face increasing pressure from historical purchasers of our residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans. We sell a portion of the residential mortgage loans we originate in the secondary market. In response to the financial crisis, we believe that purchasers of residential mortgage loans, such as government sponsored entities, are increasing their efforts to seek to require sellers of residential 29 Table of Contents mortgage loans to either repurchase loans previously sold or reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold when losses are incurred on a loan previously sold due to actual or alleged failure to strictly conform to the purchaser’s purchase criteria. As a result, we may face increasing pressure from historical purchasers of our residential mortgage loans to repurchase those loans or reimburse purchasers for losses related to those loans and we may face increasing expenses to defend against such claims. If we are required in the future to repurchase loans previously sold, reimburse purchasers for losses related to loans previously sold, or if we incur increasing expenses to defend against such claims, our financial condition and results of operations would be negatively affected. We face strong competition in our market area, which could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face strong competition in our market area from many other banks, savings institutions, and other financial organizations, as well as many other companies now offering a broad array of financial services. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources, name recognition, market presence and operating experience than we do and are able to offer services that we cannot. If the Bank cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, our operating results will suffer, as will our opportunities for growth. Because the Bank serves a limited market area in Maryland, an economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our success is largely dependent on the general economic conditions of our targeted market area of the Baltimore-Washington corridor. Broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. As a result, if our market area continues to suffer an economic downturn, it may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects our larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. Our operations are susceptible to adverse effects of changes in interest rates. Our operations are substantially dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. As with most depository institutions, our earnings are affected by changes in market interest rates and other economic factors beyond our control. If our interest-earning assets have longer effective maturities than our interest-bearing liabilities, the yield on our interest-earning assets generally will adjust more slowly than the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities, and, as a result, our net interest income generally will be adversely affected by material and prolonged increases in interest rates and positively affected by comparable declines in interest rates. Conversely, if liabilities re-price more slowly than assets, net interest income would be adversely affected by declining interest rates, and positively affected by increasing interest rates. Currently our average interest rate on interest-earning assets has decreased which has impacted our results of operations. At any time, it is likely that our assets and liabilities will 30 Table of Contents reflect interest rate risk of some degree, and changes in interest rates may therefore have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition to affecting interest income and expense, changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets, comprising fixed- and adjustable-rate instruments, as well as the ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. Generally, the value of fixed-rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover loan losses and any increase in our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect earnings. We believe we have established an allowance for loan losses to prudently cover the eventuality of losses inherent in our loan portfolio. However, even under normal economic conditions we cannot predict loan losses with certainty. Even with the improved economic stability as of late, the unprecedented volatility experienced in the financial and capital markets during the last five years makes this determination even more difficult as processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and property values, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. As a result, we cannot assure you that charge offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. An increase in our allowance for loan losses could reduce our earnings. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and hurt our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people, including Phillip Bowman, our CEO and Kevin Huffman, our President. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire qualified personnel when we need to do so or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. We face limits on our ability to lend. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2012, we were able to lend approximately $8.2 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. 31 Table of Contents Future increases in our deposit insurance premiums could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a specific level. The Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially beginning in 2009 and we paid significantly higher premiums during 2009 and 2010 although our premiums decreased in 2011 and 2012 due to the change in the assessment calculation previously discussed, they are still higher than pre-2009 levels. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures during the last few years and additional failures are expected, all of which decrease the DIF. In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.15 percent over a period of several years, the FDIC increased deposit insurance premium rates at the beginning of 2009 and imposed a special assessment on June 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase the assessment rates or impose additional special assessments in the future to keep the DIF at the statutory target level. Any increase in our FDIC premiums, whether as a result of an increase in the risk category for the Bank or in the general assessment rates or as a result of special assessments, could have an adverse effect on our profits and financial condition. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our financial condition. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively and operate profitably may depend on our ability to keep up with technological changes. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing consumers to complete financial transactions through alternative methods that historically have involved banks. For example, consumers can now maintain funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits in brokerage 32 Table of Contents accounts, mutual funds or general-purpose reloadable prepaid cards. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost of deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather and natural disasters, both of which may exacerbated by global climate change, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events cannot be predicted and could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could also affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 