D. Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and to ownership of our common units. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could significantly and negatively affect our business, financial condition, operating results or cash available for distributions or the trading price of our common units. Risks Inherent in Our Business We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to make cash distributions may be diminished, our financial leverage could increase or our unitholders could be diluted. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We may be required to make significant installment payments for retrofitting of LNG carriers to FSRUs and acquisitions of LNG carriers and FSRUs. If we choose to purchase FSRUs or LNG carriers (either from Golar or independently), we plan to finance the cost either through cash from operations, borrowings or debt or equity financings.Use of cash from operations to expand our fleet will reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, changes in the LNG industry and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of any debt financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions.4Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions, respond to competitive pressures or otherwise execute our growth strategy. As of April 25, 2014, we have an aggregate available borrowing capacity from our existing revolving credit facilities of $65 million. However, our Golar Maria facility matures in December 2014 with a balloon payment of $79.5 million. We are currently in discussions with banks to refinance such debt. If we are unable to refinance the Golar Maria facility, we may have to utilize our available borrowing capacity from our existing revolving credit facilities to pay off the Golar Maria facility. Therefore, we may be required to obtain additional financing in order to fund the expansion of our fleet beyond its current size. We plan to finance our future acquisitions through cash from operations, borrowings or debt or equity financings. Use of cash from operations to expand our fleet will reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions, changes in the LNG industry and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of any debt financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in unitholder dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to pay the minimum quarterly distribution to unitholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. We depend on Golar and certain of its affiliates, including Golar Management and Golar Wilhelmsen, to assist us in operating and expanding our business and providing interim financing for certain vessel acquisitions. Our ability to enter into new charters and expand our customer relationships will depend largely on our ability to leverage our relationship with Golar and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. If Golar suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: •renew existing charters upon their expiration;• obtain new charters;•successfully interact with shipyards;•obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms;•maintain access to capital under the sponsor credit facility; or•maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. Golar is also incurring all costs for the construction and delivery of certain newbuildings. We will have the option to purchase from Golar all of their newbuildings upon delivery of the newbuildings and entry into long term charters. If Golar fails to make construction payments for these newbuildings, we could lose the ability to purchase these vessels as a result of such default, which could harm our business and reduce our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, each vessel in our fleet is subject to management agreements pursuant to which certain commercial and technical management services are provided by certain affiliates of Golar, including Golar Management and Golar Wilhelmsen. Pursuant to these agreements, these entities provide significant commercial and technical management services for our fleet. In addition, pursuant to a management and administrative services agreement between us and Golar Management, Golar Management provides us with significant management, administrative, financial and other support services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depends significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services. Our business will be harmed if our service providers fail to perform these services satisfactorily, if they cancel their agreements with us or if they stop providing these services to us. Please read “Item 7—Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions.” 5Table of ContentsWe may not have sufficient cash from operations following the establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our common units and subordinated units. We may not have sufficient cash from operations to pay the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.3850 per unit, or any distribution, on our common units and subordinated units. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on the risks described in this section, including, among other things: •the rates we obtain from our charters;•the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance;•the continued availability of natural gas production, liquefaction and regasification facilities;•demand for LNG;•supply of LNG carriers and FSRUs;•prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions;•currency exchange rate fluctuations; and•the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. In addition, the actual amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders will depend on other factors, including: •the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining or replacing vessels, building new vessels, acquiring existing vessels and complying with regulations;•the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydocking of our vessels;•our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our debt instruments;•the level of debt we will incur to fund future acquisitions;•fluctuations in interest rates;•fluctuations in our working capital needs;•variable tax rates;•our ability to make, and the level of, working capital borrowings; and•the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our profit or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result of this and the other factors mentioned above, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and replace the operating capacity of our fleet, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and replace, over the long-term, the operating capacity of our fleet. Maintenance and replacement capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel, acquiring a new vessel or otherwise replacing current vessels at the end of their useful lives to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain or replace the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could vary significantly from period to period and could increase as a result of changes in: •the cost of labor and materials;•customer requirements;•fleet size;6Table of Contents•the cost of replacement vessels;•length of charters;•governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and•competitive standards. Our partnership agreement requires our board of directors to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, instead of actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, from operating surplus each quarter in an effort to reduce fluctuations in operating surplus as a result of significant variations in actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures each quarter. The amount of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our conflicts committee at least once a year. In years when estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted from operating surplus. If our board of directors underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in periods when actual capital expenditures exceed our previous estimates. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions which could have an adverse effect on our expected plans for growth. Our growth strategy includes selectively acquiring FSRUs and LNG carriers that are operating under long-term, stable cash flow generating time charters. For instance, since our IPO, we have acquired five vessels from Golar, most recently being the Golar Maria in February 2013 and the Golar Igloo in March 2014. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable to us at or after the time we acquire it and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: •fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements;•be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet;•decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions;•significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions;•incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; or•incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity and could have an adverse effect on our expected plans for growth. The required drydocking of our vessels could be more expensive and time consuming than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution. The drydocking of our vessels requires significant capital expenditures and results in loss of revenue while our vessels are off-hire. Any significant increase in the number of days of off-hire due to such drydocking or in the costs of any repairs could have a material adverse effect on our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. Although we do not anticipate that more than one of our vessels will be out of service at any given time, we may underestimate the time required to drydock any of our vessels or unanticipated problems may arise. If more than one of our vessels is required to be out of service at the same time, if a vessel is drydocked longer than expected or if the cost of repairs during drydocking is greater than budgeted, our cash available for distribution could be adversely affected. 7Table of ContentsOur growth depends on continued growth in demand for LNG, FSRUs and LNG carriers. Our growth strategy focuses on expansion in the floating storage and regasification sector and the LNG shipping sector. While global LNG demand has continued to rise, the rate of its growth has fluctuated due to several reasons, including the global economic crisis and the continued increase in natural gas production from unconventional sources in regions such as North America. Accordingly, our growth depends on continued growth in world and regional demand for LNG, FSRUs and LNG carriers, which could be negatively affected by a number of factors, including: •increases in the cost of natural gas derived from LNG relative to the cost of natural gas generally;•increases in the production levels of low-cost natural gas in domestic natural gas consuming markets, which could further depress prices for natural gas in those markets and make LNG uneconomical;•decreases in the cost, or increases in the demand for, conventional land-based regasification systems, which could occur if providers or users of regasification services seek greater economies of scale than FSRUs can provide or if the economic, regulatory or political challenges associated with land-based activities improve;•further development of, or decreases in the cost of, alternative technologies for vessel-based LNG regasification;•increases in the production of natural gas in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new, pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-natural gas pipelines to natural gas pipelines in those markets;•decreases in the consumption of natural gas due to increases in its price relative to other energy sources or other factors making consumption of natural gas less attractive;•availability of new, alternative energy sources, including compressed natural gas; and•negative global or regional economic or political conditions, particularly in LNG consuming regions, which could reduce energy consumption or its growth. Reduced demand for LNG, FSRUs or LNG carriers would have a material adverse effect on our future growth and could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have only nine vessels in our current fleet. Any limitation on the availability or operation of those vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Our current fleet consists of five FSRUs and four LNG carriers. If any of our FSRUs or LNG carriers are unable to generate revenues as a result of off-hire time, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The charters relating to our FSRUs and LNG carriers permit the charterer to terminate the charter in the event that the vessel is off-hire for any extended period. The charters also allow each charterer to terminate the charter upon the occurrence of specified defaults by us. The termination of any of our charters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders if we are unable to re-charter such vessel for an extended period of time. For further details regarding termination of our charters, please read "Item 4—Information on the Partnership—Business Overview—FSRU Charters" and "—LNG Carrier Charters."We currently derive all of our revenue from six customers. The loss of any of these customers would result in a significant loss of revenues and cash flow, if for an extended period of time, we are not able to re-charter a vessel to another customer. We have derived, and believe that we will continue to derive, all of our revenues and cash flow from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2013, BG Group PLC (or BG Group) accounted for 20%, PT Pertamina (PERSERO) (or Pertamina) accounted for 11%, Dubai Supply Authority (or DUSUP) accounted for 15%, Petrobras accounted for 26%, PT Nusantara Regas (PTNR) accounted for 20% and Eni SpA accounted for 8% of our total revenues. All of our charters have fixed terms, but might nevertheless be lost in the event of unanticipated developments such as a customer’s breach. We could also lose a customer or the benefits of a charter if: •the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise;•the customer exercises its right to terminate the charter in certain circumstances, such as:8Table of Contents•loss of the vessel or damage to it beyond repair;•defaults of our obligations under the charter, including prolonged periods of off-hire;•in the event of war or hostilities that would significantly disrupt the free trade of the vessel;•requisition by any governmental authority; or•with respect to the Golar Spirit, the Golar Winter and the Golar Freeze, upon six months’ written notice at any time after the fifth anniversary of the commencement of the related charter upon payment of a termination fee; •a prolonged force majeure event affecting the customer, including damage to or destruction of relevant production facilities, war or political unrest prevents us from performing services for that customer. If we lose any of our charters and are unable to re-deploy the related vessel on terms as favorable to us as our current charters for an extended period of time, we will not receive any revenues from that vessel, but we may be required to pay expenses necessary to maintain the vessel in proper operating condition. The loss of any of our customers, charters or vessels, or a decline in payments under any of our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders, if we are not able to re-charter a vessel to another customer for an extended period of time. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying distributions to unitholders. As of December 31, 2013, we had a total consolidated debt (including capitalized lease obligations, net of restricted cash, and including indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities) of approximately $878.3 million. In addition, we have the ability to incur additional debt. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited or such financing may not be available on favorable terms;•we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders;•our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and•our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our financing arrangements are secured by our vessels and contain operating and financial restrictions and other covenants that may restrict our business and financing activities as well as our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our financing arrangements, including the Golar LNG Partners credit facility, the Golar Freeze credit facility, the Norwegian bond agreement, the Methane Princess lease agreement and any future financing agreements, could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, subject to certain exceptions, the Golar LNG Partners credit facility, which is secured by a first priority charge over the Methane Princess and the Golar Spirit and a second priority charge over the Golar Mazo, requires the prior written consent of our lenders or otherwise restricts our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: •merge or consolidate with any other person;•make certain capital expenditures;•pay distributions to our unitholders;9Table of Contents•terminate or materially amend certain of our charters;•enter into any other line of business;•make any acquisitions;•incur additional indebtedness or grant any liens to secure any of our existing or future indebtedness;•enter into any sale-leaseback transactions; or•enter into any transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the Golar LNG Partners credit facility prohibits us from paying distributions to our unitholders if we are not in compliance with certain financial covenants or upon the occurrence of an event of default. The agreements governing our other financing arrangements, including the sponsor credit facility, the $108 million credit facility that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of the Golar Freeze (or the Golar Freeze Facility), the $175 million NR Satu facility, the $120 million Golar Maria Facility that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of the Golar Maria, the $161 million Golar Igloo Facility that we assumed in connection with our acquisition of the Golar Igloo, the $225 million Golar Partners Operating credit facility, our high-yield bond agreement and our Methane Princess lease agreement also contain operating and financial restrictions and covenants. For more information, regarding our financial arrangements, please read “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Borrowing Activities—Long-Term Debt” and “—Capital Lease Obligations.” Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in our financing arrangements may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt instruments are breached, a significant portion of the obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment to make further loans may terminate. We may not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, obligations under our financing arrangements are secured by certain of our vessels and guaranteed by our subsidiaries holding the interests in our vessels, and if we are unable to repay debt under our financing arrangements, the lenders or lessors could seek to foreclose on those assets.Growth of the LNG market may be limited by many factors, including infrastructure constraints and community and political group resistance to new LNG infrastructure over concerns about the environment, safety and terrorism. A complete LNG project includes production, liquefaction, regasification, storage and distribution facilities and LNG carriers. Existing LNG projects and infrastructure are limited, and new or expanded LNG projects are highly complex and capital intensive, with new projects often costing several billion dollars. Many factors could negatively affect continued development of LNG infrastructure and related alternatives, including floating storage and regasification, or disrupt the supply of LNG, including: •increases in interest rates or other events that may affect the availability of sufficient financing for LNG projects on commercially reasonable terms;•decreases in the price of LNG, which might decrease the expected returns relating to investments in LNG projects;•the inability of project owners or operators to obtain governmental approvals to construct or operate LNG facilities;•local community resistance to proposed or existing LNG facilities based on safety, environmental or security concerns;•any significant explosion, spill or similar incident involving an LNG facility, FSRU or LNG carrier; and•labor or political unrest affecting existing or proposed areas of LNG production and regasification. We expect that, as a result of the factors discussed above, some of the proposals to expand existing or develop new LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities may be abandoned or significantly delayed. If the LNG supply chain is disrupted or does not continue to grow, or if a significant LNG explosion, spill or similar incident occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our growth depends on our ability to expand relationships with existing customers and obtain new customers, for which we will face substantial competition. One of our principal objectives is to enter into additional long-term, FSRU and LNG carrier time charters. The process of obtaining long-term charters for FSRUs and LNG carriers is highly competitive and generally involves an intensive screening process and competitive bids, and often extends for several months. We believe FSRU and LNG carrier time charters are awarded based upon bid price as well as a variety of factors relating to the vessel operator, including:10Table of Contents •LNG shipping and FSRU experience, technical ability and reputation for operation of highly specialized vessels;•shipping industry relationships and reputation for customer service and safety;•quality and experience of seafaring crew;•financial stability and the ability to finance FSRUs and LNG carriers at competitive rates;•relationships with shipyards and construction management experience; and•willingness to accept operational risks pursuant to the charter. We expect substantial competition for providing floating storage and regasification services and marine transportation services for potential LNG projects from a number of experienced companies, including state-sponsored entities and major energy companies. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and larger and more versatile fleets than we do or Golar. We anticipate that an increasing number of marine transportation companies—including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience—will enter the FSRU market and LNG transportation market. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for time charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to expand our relationships with existing customers or to obtain new customers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We may have more difficulty entering into long-term time charters in the future if an active short-term or spot LNG shipping market continues to develop. One of our principal strategies is to enter into additional long-term FSRU and LNG carrier time charters of five years or more. Most shipping requirements for new LNG projects continue to be provided on a long-term basis, though the level of spot voyages and short-term time charters of less than 12 months in duration has grown in the past few years. If an active spot or short-term market continues to develop, we may have increased difficulty entering into long-term time charters upon expiration or early termination of our current charters or for any vessels that we acquire in the future, and, as a result, our cash flow may be less stable. In addition, an active short-term or spot LNG market may require us to enter into charters based on changing market prices, as opposed to contracts based on a fixed rate, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when the market price for shipping LNG is depressed or insufficient funds are available to cover our financing costs for related vessels. Hire rates for FSRUs and LNG carriers are not readily available and may fluctuate substantially. If rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, our earnings and ability to make distributions to our unitholders may decline. Hire rates for FSRUs and LNG carriers are not readily available and may fluctuate over time as a result of changes in the supply-demand balance relating to current and future FSRU and LNG carrier capacity. This supply-demand relationship largely depends on a number of factors outside our control. The LNG market is closely connected to world natural gas prices and energy markets, which we cannot predict. A substantial or extended decline in natural gas prices could adversely affect our ability to recharter our vessels at acceptable rates or to acquire and profitably operate new FSRUs or LNG carriers. Our ability from time to time to charter or re-charter any vessel at attractive rates will depend on, among other things, the prevailing economic conditions in the LNG industry. Hire rates for newbuilding FSRUs and LNG carriers are correlated with their purchase price. Hire rates at a time when we may be seeking a new charter may be lower than the hire rates at which our vessels are currently chartered. If rates are lower when we are seeking a new charter, our earnings and ability to make distributions to our unitholders may decline. Vessel values may fluctuate substantially and, if these values are lower at a time when we are attempting to dispose of vessels, we may incur a loss. Vessel values can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors, including: •prevailing economic conditions in the natural gas and energy markets;•a substantial or extended decline in demand for LNG;•increases in the supply of vessel capacity;•the size and age of a vessel; and11Table of Contents•the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing vessels, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards, customer requirements or otherwise. As our vessels age, the expenses associated with maintaining and operating them are expected to increase, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations if we do not maintain sufficient cash reserves for maintenance and replacement capital expenditures. Moreover, the cost of a replacement vessel would be significant. If a charter terminates, we may be unable to re-deploy the affected vessels at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance them, we may seek to dispose of them. Our inability to dispose of vessels at a reasonable value could result in a loss on their sale and adversely affect our ability to purchase a replacement vessel, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make distributions to unitholders. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our business.Although no vessels operated by us have called on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, in the future our vessels may call on ports in these countries from time to time on our charterers' instructions. None of our vessels made any port calls to Iran in 2013. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies such as ours and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, in 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years.On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the “Joint Plan of Action” (“JPOA”). Under the JPOA it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the United States and the European Union would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the United States and the European Union indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures include, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014.Although it is our intention to comply with the provisions of the JPOA, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, as such regulations and U.S. Sanctions may be amended over time, and the U.S. retains the authority to revoke the aforementioned relief if Iran fails to meet its commitments under the JPOA.12Table of ContentsAlthough we believe that we have been in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common units may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries.Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The operation of FSRUs and LNG carriers is inherently risky. Although we carry protection and indemnity insurance consistent with industry standards, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. We may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A marine disaster could exceed our insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our ships failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks or piracy may also make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. In addition, upon renewal or expiration of our current policies, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing coverage. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, if the value of our claim records, the claim records of our fleet managers, and/or the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability (including pollution-related liability) significantly exceed projected claims. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay distributions. An increase in operating expenses or drydocking costs could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. Our operating expenses and drydock capital expenditures depend on a variety of factors including crew costs, provisions, deck and engine stores and spares, lubricating oil, insurance, maintenance and repairs and shipyard costs, many of which are beyond our control and affect the entire shipping industry. Also, while we do not bear the cost of fuel (bunkers) under our time charters, fuel is a significant expense in our operations when our vessels are, for example, moving to or from dry-dock or when off-hire. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil-producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. These may increase vessel operating and drydocking costs further. If costs continue to rise, they could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.13Table of ContentsAn increased shortage of qualified officers and crew could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. LNG carriers and FSRUs require technically skilled officer staff with specialized training. Increases in our historical vessel operating expenses have been attributable primarily to the rising costs of recruiting and retaining officers for our fleet. The pool of technically competent crew members has not grown very much during the past few years as the demand for crew members was hampered by the lack of newbuild orders during the period between 2008 to 2010. However, more recently the number of orders for newbuild LNG carriers and FSRUs has grown and as deliveries of these new vessels start to materialize, the demand for technically skilled officers and crew has been increasing, which has led to a shortfall of such personnel. If Golar Management or Golar Wilhelmsen are unable to employ technically skilled staff and crew, they will not be able to adequately staff our vessels. A material decrease in the supply of technically skilled officers or an inability of Golar Management or Golar Wilhelmsen to attract and retain such qualified officers could impair our ability to operate or increase the cost of crewing our vessels, which would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. In addition, the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter are employed by Petrobras in Brazil. As a result, we are required to hire a certain portion of Brazilian personnel to crew these vessels in accordance with Brazilian law. Also, the Golar Mazo and the NR Satu are employed by Pertamina and PTNR, respectively, in Indonesia. As a result, we are required to hire a certain portion of Indonesian personnel to crew these vessels in accordance with Indonesian law. Any inability to attract and retain qualified Brazilian and Indonesian crew members could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and could significantly reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel in the LNG industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operation. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and the efforts of our senior executives. While we believe that we have an experienced management team, the loss or unavailability of one or more of our senior executives for any extended period of time could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations will result in fluctuations in our cash flows and operating results. Historically our revenue has been generated in U.S. Dollars, but we incur capital, operating and administrative expenses in multiple currencies, including, among others, the Euro, the Brazilian Real, the Indonesian Rupiah and the British Pound. If the U.S. Dollar weakens significantly, we would be required to convert more U.S. Dollars to other currencies to satisfy our obligations, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. Under the charters and OSAs for the Golar Spirit and Golar Winter, we generate a portion of our revenues in Brazilian Reais. We incur some operating expenses in Brazilian Reais but also have to convert Brazilian Reais into other currencies in order to pay the remaining operating expenses. If the Brazilian Real weakens significantly, we may not have sufficient Brazilian Reais to convert to other currencies to satisfy our obligations in respect of the operating expenses related to these charters, which would cause us to have less cash available for distribution. Because we report our operating results in U.S. Dollars, changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar also result in fluctuations in our reported revenues and earnings. In addition, under U.S. GAAP, all foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities such as cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, restricted cash, accounts payable, long-term debt and capital lease obligation are revalued and reported based on the prevailing exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. This revaluation may cause us to report significant non-monetary foreign currency exchange gains and losses in certain periods.One of our vessels is currently financed by a UK tax lease. In the event of any adverse tax changes or a successful challenge by the UK Revenue authorities with regard to the initial tax basis of the transactions or in the event of an early termination of a lease, we may be required to make additional payments to the UK vessel lessor, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. One of our vessels is currently financed by a UK tax lease. In the event of any adverse tax changes to legislation affecting the tax treatment of the lease for the UK vessel lessor or a successful challenge by the UK Revenue authorities to the tax assumptions on which the transaction was based, or in the event that we terminate our UK tax lease before its expiration, we would be required to return all or a portion of, or in certain circumstances significantly more than, the upfront cash benefits that we have received or that have accrued over time, together with fees that were financed in connection with our lease financing transactions, or post additional security or make additional payments to the UK vessel lessor. Golar has agreed to indemnify us against these increased costs, but any default by Golar would not limit our obligation under this lease. Any additional payments could adversely affect our earnings and financial position. For more information on the UK tax lease, please read “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Borrowing Activities—Capital Lease Obligations.”14Table of Contents An economic downturn may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. An economic downturn in the global financial markets may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customers’ inability to pay could also result in their default on our current charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our charters with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently operate primarily outside the United States, which could expose us to political, governmental and economic instability that could harm our operations. Because most of our operations are currently conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we are engaged in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business. In particular, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from shipping LNG from politically unstable regions. Past political conflicts in these regions, particularly in the Arabian Gulf, Brazil and Indonesia, have included attacks on ships, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt shipping in the area. In addition to acts of terrorism, vessels trading in these and other regions have also been subject, in limited instances, to piracy. Future hostilities or other political instability in the Arabian Gulf, Brazil and Indonesia where we operate or may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by Brazil, the United States or other countries against countries in the Middle East, Southeast Asia or elsewhere as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. We may not be able to redeploy our FSRUs on terms as favorable as our current FSRU charter arrangements or at all. The market for FSRUs is growing rapidly but is relatively small in comparison to the LNG carrier market. In the event that any of the applicable charters are terminated, we may be unable to recharter the Golar Spirit, the Golar Winter, the Golar Freeze, the NR Satu or the Golar Igloo, as FSRUs for an extended period of time. While we may be able to employ these vessels as traditional LNG carriers (except for the NR Satu), the hire rates and/or other charter terms may not be as favorable to us as our charters on the Golar Spirit and the Golar Winter with Petrobras, the charter on the Golar Freeze with DUSUP, the charter on the NR Satu with PTNR and the charter on the Golar Igloo with Kuwait National Petroleum Company. If we acquire additional FSRUs and they are not, as a result of contract termination or otherwise, subject to a long-term profitable contract, we may be required to bid for projects at unattractive rates in order to reduce our losses relating to the vessels.Due to our lack of diversification, adverse developments in our LNG transportation or storage and regasification businesses could reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We rely exclusively on the cash flow generated from our FSRUs and LNG carriers. Due to our lack of diversification, an adverse development in the LNG transportation industry or the LNG storage and regasification industry could have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets or lines of businesses. The shareholders’ agreement with Chinese Petroleum Corporation with respect to the Golar Mazo contains provisions that may limit our ability to sell or transfer our interest in the Golar Mazo, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We have a 60% interest in the joint venture that owns the Golar Mazo, which enables us to control the joint venture subject to certain negative controls held by Chinese Petroleum Corporation (or CPC), who holds the remaining 40% interest in the Golar Mazo. Under the shareholders’ agreement, no party may sell, assign, mortgage, or otherwise transfer its rights, interests or obligations under the agreement without the prior written consent of the other party. If we determine that the sale or transfer of our interest in the Golar Mazo is in our best interest, we must provide CPC notice of our intent to sell or transfer our interest and grant CPC a right of first refusal to purchase our interest. If CPC does not accept the offer within 60 days after we notify CPC, we will be free to sell or transfer our interest to a third party. Any delay in the sale or transfer of our interest in the Golar Mazo or restrictions in our ability to manage the joint venture could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and affect our ability to make distributions to our unitholders.15Table of ContentsPTNR has the right to purchase the NR Satu at any time after the first anniversary of the commencement date of its charter at a price that must be agreed upon between us and PTNR. In addition, PTNR has the option to extend the charter at a rate lower than the existing hire rate. The exercise of either of these options could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. PTNR has the right to purchase the NR Satu at any time after the first anniversary of the commencement date of its charter at a price that must be agreed upon between us and PTNR. If PTNR exercises its purchase option, it would reduce the size of our fleet and we may be unable to identify or acquire a suitable replacement vessel with the proceeds of the option exercise. Even if we find a suitable replacement vessel, the hire rate of such vessel may be lower than the hire rate for the NR Satu under its charter. In addition, if PTNR exercises its option to extend the NR Satu charter, the total hire rate will be reduced by approximately 11.6% per day for any day in the extension period falling in 2023, with a further 7.0% reduction for any day in the extension period falling in 2024 and 2025. The exercise of either of these options could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders.We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us.We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry The operation of FSRUs and LNG carriers is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of life or environmental consequences affecting any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: •marine disasters;•piracy;•environmental accidents;•bad weather;•mechanical failures;•grounding, fire, explosions and collisions;•human error; and•war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: •death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage;•delays in the delivery of cargo;•loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts;•governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business;•higher insurance rates; and•damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. 16Table of ContentsAny of these results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired. The costs of vessel repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay repair costs that our insurance policies do not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our results of operations. If any of our vessels is involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental consequences, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, our results of operations and cash flows, weaken our financial condition and negatively affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders. A renewal of the global financial crisis could negatively impact our business. Although there are signs that the economic recession has abated in some countries, there is still considerable instability in the world economy and in the economies of countries such as Greece, Spain, Portugal, Italy and Cyprus that could initiate a new economic downturn and result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in financial markets, and volatility in credit and equity markets. A renewal of the financial crisis that affected the banking system and the financial markets over the past three years may negatively impact our business and financial condition in ways that we cannot predict. In addition, the uncertainty about current and future global economic conditions caused by a renewed financial crisis may cause our customers and governments to defer projects in response to tighter credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence which may negatively impact the demand for our services. A tightening of the credit markets may further negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our suppliers or customers which could lead to disruptions in delivery of supplies such as equipment for conversions, cost increases for supplies, accelerated payments to suppliers, customer bad debts or reduced revenues. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks and the continuing response of the United States and others to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world’s financial markets and may affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay distributions. In addition, LNG facilities, shipyards, vessels (including FSRUs and conventional LNG carriers), pipelines and gas fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks or piracy. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the production, storage, transportation or regasification of LNG to be shipped or processed by us could entitle our customers to terminate our charters, which would harm our cash flow and our business. Concern that LNG facilities may be targeted for attack by terrorists has contributed to significant community and environmental resistance to the construction of a number of LNG facilities, primarily in North America. If a terrorist incident involving an LNG facility, FSRU or LNG carrier did occur, the incident may adversely affect construction of additional LNG facilities or FSRUs or the temporary or permanent closing of various LNG facilities or FSRUs currently in operation. The LNG transportation, storage and regasification industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, compliance with which may significantly limit our operations or increase our expenses. Our operations are materially affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties, conventions and standards in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those relating to equipping and operating FSRUs and LNG carriers, providing security and minimizing the potential for impacts to the environment from their operations. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. Additional laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or further increase costs, which could harm our business. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of operations. We may become subject to additional laws and regulations if we enter new markets or trades. 17Table of ContentsThese requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages, personal injury and property damage claims in the event that there is a release of a hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, safety and environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. Events of this nature would have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and the results of operations. We may be unable to obtain, maintain, and/or renew permits necessary for our operations or experience delays in obtaining such permits, which could have a material effect on our operations. The design, construction and operation of FSRUs and interconnecting pipelines and the transportation of LNG are subject to governmental approvals and permits. The permitting rules, and the interpretations of those rules, are complex, change frequently and are often subject to discretionary interpretations by regulators, all of which may make compliance more difficult or impractical, and may increase the length of time it takes to receive regulatory approval for offshore LNG operations. In the future, the relevant regulatory authorities may take actions to restrict or prohibit the access of FSRUs or LNG carriers to various ports or adopt new rules and regulations applicable to FSRUs and LNG carriers that will increase the time needed to obtain necessary environmental permits. We cannot assure unitholders that such changes would not have a material effect on our operations. Our vessels operating in international waters now or, in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Our vessels traveling in international waters are subject to various existing regulations published by the International Maritime Organization (or the IMO) as well as marine pollution and prevention requirements imposed by the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. In addition, our LNG vessels may become subject to the International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by Sea, as amended by the April 2010 Protocol to the HNS Convention (or the 2010 HNS Convention), if it is entered into force. In addition, national laws generally provide for a LNG carrier or offshore LNG facility owner or operator to bear strict liability for pollution, subject to a right to limit liability under applicable national or international regimes for limitation of liability. However, some jurisdictions are not a party to an international regime limiting maritime pollution liability, and, therefore, a vessel owner’s or operator’s rights to limit liability for maritime pollution in such jurisdictions may be uncertain. Please read “Item 4 Information on the Partnership—Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations— International Maritime Regulations of LNG Vessels” and “Other Regulation” below for a more detailed discussion on these topics. Our vessels operating in U.S. waters now or, in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment. Our vessels operating in U.S. waters now or, in the future, will be subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (OPA 90), the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), the Clean Water Act, and the Clean Air Act. In some cases, these laws and regulations require us to obtain governmental permits and authorizations before we may conduct certain activities. These environmental laws and regulations may impose substantial penalties for noncompliance and substantial liabilities for pollution. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties. As with the industry generally, our operations will entail risks in these areas, and compliance with these laws and regulations, which may be subject to frequent revisions and reinterpretation, may increase our overall cost of business. Please read “Item 4 Information on the Partnership—Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations- United States Environmental Regulation of LNG Vessels” below for a more detailed discussion of the regulations applicable to our vessels.18Table of ContentsFurther changes to existing environmental legislation that is applicable to international and national maritime trade may have an adverse effect on our business. We believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will generally lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on all LNG carriers in the marine transportation markets and offshore LNG terminals. These requirements are likely to add incremental costs to our operations and the failure to comply with these requirements may affect the ability of our vessels to obtain and, possibly, collect on insurance or to obtain the required certificates for entry into the different ports where we operate. Further legislation, or amendments to existing legislation, applicable to international and national maritime trade are expected over the coming years in areas such as ship recycling, sewage systems, emission control (including emissions of greenhouse gases), ballast treatment and handling, etc. The United States has recently enacted legislation and regulations that require more stringent controls of air and water emissions from ocean-going vessels. Such legislation or regulations may require additional capital expenditures or operating expenses (such as increased costs for low-sulfur fuel) in order for us to maintain our vessels’ compliance with international and/or national regulations. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emission from vessel emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Also, a treaty may be adopted in the future that requires the adoption of restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws and regulations relating to climate change could increase our costs of operating and maintaining our vessels and could require us to make significant financial expenditures that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also have an effect on demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Please read "Item 4 Information on the Partnership—Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations—Regulation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions" below for a more detailed discussion. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. If we are in default on certain kinds of obligations, such as those to our lenders, crew members, suppliers of goods and services to our vessels or shippers of cargo, these parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against one or more of our vessels. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. In a few jurisdictions, claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our vessels. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay to have the arrest lifted. Under some of our present charters, if the vessel is arrested or detained (for as few as 14 days in the case of one of our charters) as a result of a claim against us, we may be in default of our charter and the charterer may terminate the charter. This would negatively impact our revenues and reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every large, oceangoing commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. With the exception of the Golar Mazo, which is certified by Lloyds Register, all other vessels in our current fleet are each certified by Det Norske Veritas. 19Table of ContentsAs part of the certification process, a vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Each of the vessels in our existing fleet is on a planned maintenance system approval, and as such the classification society attends onboard once every year to verify that the maintenance of the equipment onboard is done correctly. Each of the vessels in our existing fleet is required to be qualified within its respective classification society for drydocking once every five years subject to an intermediate underwater survey done using an approved diving company in the presence of a surveyor from the classification society. If any vessel does not maintain its class or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable. We would lose revenue while the vessel was off-hire and incur costs of compliance. This would negatively impact our revenues and reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Golar and its affiliates may compete with us. Pursuant to the omnibus agreement, Golar and its affiliates (other than us, our general partner and our subsidiaries) generally agreed not to acquire, own, operate or charter certain FSRUs and LNG carriers operating under charters of five years or more. The omnibus agreement, however, contains significant exceptions that may allow Golar and its affiliates to compete with us, which could harm our business. Please read "Item 7—Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Omnibus Agreement—Noncompetition." Unitholders have limited voting rights, and our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of the unitholders owning more than 4.9% of our common units. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. We will hold a meeting of the limited partners every year to elect one or more members of our board of directors and to vote on any other matters that are properly brought before the meeting. Common unitholders will be entitled to elect only four of the seven members of our board of directors. The elected directors will be elected on a staggered basis and will serve for three year terms. Our general partner in its sole discretion will appoint the remaining three directors and set the terms for which those directors will serve. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner, and our general partner may not be removed except by a vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of the outstanding common units and subordinated units, including any common units or subordinated units owned by our general partner and its affiliates, voting together as a single class. Our partnership agreement further restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that if any person or group owns beneficially more than 4.9% of any class of units then outstanding, any such units owned by that person or group in excess of 4.9% may not be voted on any matter and will not be considered to be outstanding when sending notices of a meeting of unitholders, calculating required votes (except for purposes of nominating a person for election to our board), determining the presence of a quorum or for other similar purposes, unless required by law. The voting rights of any such unitholders in excess of 4.9% will effectively be redistributed pro rata among the other common unitholders holding less than 4.9% of the voting power of all classes of units entitled to vote. Our general partner, its affiliates and persons who acquired common units with the prior approval of our board of directors will not be subject to this 4.9% limitation except with respect to voting their common units in the election of the elected directors.Our general partner and its other affiliates own a significant interest in us and have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. Golar owns a 40.2% limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our general partner. All of our officers and certain of our directors are directors and/or officers of Golar or its affiliates and, as such, they have fiduciary duties to Golar that may cause them to pursue business strategies that disproportionately benefit Golar or which otherwise are not in the best interests of us or our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between Golar and its affiliates (including our general partner) on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner and its affiliates may favor their own interests over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: •neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires our general partner or Golar or its affiliates to pursue a business strategy that favors us or utilizes our assets, and Golar’s officers and directors have a fiduciary duty to make decisions in the best interests of the shareholders of Golar, which may be contrary to our interests;20Table of Contents•our partnership agreement permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. Specifically, our general partner will be considered to be acting in its individual capacity if it exercises its call right, pre-emptive rights, registration rights or right to make a determination to receive common units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights, consents or withholds consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership, appoints any directors or votes for the election of any director, votes or refrains from voting on amendments to our partnership agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraws from the partnership, transfers (to the extent permitted under our partnership agreement) or refrains from transferring its units, general partner interest or incentive distribution rights or votes upon the dissolution of the partnership;•our general partner and our directors have limited their liabilities and reduced their fiduciary duties under the laws of the Marshall Islands, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders, and, as a result of purchasing common units, unitholders are treated as having agreed to the modified standard of fiduciary duties and to certain actions that may be taken by our general partner and our directors, all as set forth in the partnership agreement;•our general partner is entitled to reimbursement of all reasonable costs incurred by it and its affiliates for our benefit;•our partnership agreement does not restrict us from paying our general partner or its affiliates for any services rendered to us on terms that are fair and reasonable or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf;•our general partner may exercise its right to call and purchase our common units if it and its affiliates own more than 80% of our common units; and our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of its limited call right. Although a majority of our directors are elected by common unitholders, our general partner will likely have substantial influence on decisions made by our board of directors. Our officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our officers, all but one of whom are directors or officers of Golar Management and perform executive officer functions for us pursuant to the management and administrative services agreement, are not required to work full-time on our affairs and also perform services for affiliates of our general partner, including Golar. The affiliates of our general partner, including Golar, conduct substantial businesses and activities of their own in which we have no economic interest. As a result, there could be material competition for the time and effort of our officers who also provide services to our general partner’s affiliates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Please read “Item 6—Directors, Senior Management and Employees.” Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s and our directors’ fiduciary duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner or our directors. Our partnership agreement provides that our general partner will delegate to our board of directors the authority to oversee and direct our operations, management and policies on an exclusive basis, and such delegation will be binding on any successor general partner of the partnership. Our partnership agreement also contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner and directors would otherwise be held by Marshall Islands law. For example, our partnership agreement: •permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. Where our partnership agreement permits, our general partner may consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and in such cases it has no fiduciary duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our unitholders. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its sole owner, Golar. Specifically, pursuant to our partnership agreement, our general partner will be considered to be acting in its individual capacity if it exercises its right to make a determination to receive common units in exchange for resetting the target distribution levels related to the incentive distribution rights (or the IDRs), call right, pre-emptive rights or registration rights, consents or withholds consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership, appoints any directors or votes for the election of any director, votes or refrains from voting on amendments to our partnership agreement that require a vote of the outstanding units, voluntarily withdraws from the partnership, transfers (to the extent permitted under our partnership agreement) or refrains from transferring its units, general partner interest or IDRs or votes upon the dissolution of the partnership;•provides that our general partner and our directors are entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if they reasonably believe that the decision is in our best interests;21Table of Contents•generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our board of directors may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and•provides that neither our general partner nor our officers or our directors will be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that our general partner or directors or its officers or directors or those other persons engaged in actual fraud or willful misconduct. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, a common unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Fees and cost reimbursements, which Golar Management determines for services provided to us, are substantial, are payable regardless of our profitability and reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to the fleet management agreements, we pay fees for services provided to us and our subsidiaries by Golar Management (a subsidiary of Golar) and certain other affiliates of Golar, including Golar Wilhelmsen, and we reimburse these entities for all expenses they incur on our behalf. These fees and expenses include all costs and expenses incurred in providing certain commercial and technical management services to our subsidiaries.In addition, pursuant to a management and administrative services agreement Golar Management provides us with significant management, administrative, financial and other support services. We reimburse Golar Management for its reasonable costs and expenses incurred in connection with the provision of these services. In addition, we pay Golar Management a management fee equal to 5% of its costs and expenses incurred in connection with providing services to us. For a description of the fleet management agreements and the management and administrative services agreement, please read “Item 7—Major Unitholders and Related Party Transactions.” Fees and expenses payable pursuant to the fleet management agreements and the management and administrative services agreement are payable without regard to our financial condition or results of operations. The payment of fees to and the reimbursement of expenses of Golar Management, Golar Wilhelmsen and certain other affiliates of Golar could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our current management or our general partner, and even if public unitholders are dissatisfied, they will be unable to remove our general partner without Golar’s consent, unless Golar’s ownership interest in us is decreased; all of which could diminish the trading price of our common units. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our current management or our general partner. •The unitholders will initially be unable to remove our general partner without its consent because our general partner and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent its removal. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove the general partner. Golar currently owns 40.2% of the outstanding common and subordinated units.22Table of Contents•If our general partner is removed without “cause” during the subordination period and units held by our general partner and Golar are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically convert into common units, any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished, and our general partner will have the right to convert its general partner interest and its IDRs (and Golar will have the right to convert its IDRs) into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests based on the fair market value of those interests at the time. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Any conversion of the general partner interest or IDRs would be dilutive to existing unitholders. Furthermore, any cash payment in lieu of such conversion could be prohibitively expensive. “Cause” is narrowly defined to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor business decisions, such as charges of poor management of our business by the directors appointed by our general partner, so the removal of our general partner because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with the general partner’s decisions in this regard would most likely result in the termination of the subordination period.•Common unitholders will be entitled to elect only four of the seven members of our board of directors. Our general partner in its sole discretion will appoint the remaining three directors.•Election of the four directors elected by unitholders is staggered, meaning that the members of only one of three classes of our elected directors will be selected each year. In addition, the directors appointed by our general partner will serve for terms determined by our general partner.•Our partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders, to nominate directors and to acquire information about our operations as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management.•Unitholders’ voting rights are further restricted by the partnership agreement provision providing that if any person or group owns beneficially more than 4.9% of any class of units then outstanding, any such units owned by that person or group in excess of 4.9% may not be voted on any matter and will not be considered to be outstanding when sending notices of a meeting of unitholders, calculating required votes (except for purposes of nominating a person for election to our board), determining the presence of a quorum or for other similar purposes, unless required by law. The voting rights of any such unitholders in excess of 4.9% will effectively be redistributed pro rata among the other common unitholders holding less than 4.9% of the voting power of all classes of units entitled to vote. Our general partner, its affiliates and persons who acquired common units with the prior approval of our board of directors will not be subject to this 4.9% limitation except with respect to voting their common units in the election of the elected directors.•There are no restrictions in our partnership agreement on our ability to issue equity securities. The effect of these provisions may be to diminish the price at which the common units will trade. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders. In addition, our partnership agreement does not restrict the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party. Substantial future sales of our common units in the public market could cause the price of our common units to fall. We have granted registration rights to Golar and certain of its affiliates. These unitholders have the right, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering any of our common, subordinated or other equity securities owned by them or to include those securities in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other unitholders. As of April 25, 2014, Golar owns 8,838,096 common units and 15,949,831 subordinated units and 100% of the IDRs (directly and through its ownership of our general partner). Following their registration and sale under the applicable registration statement, those securities will become freely tradable. By exercising their registration rights and selling a large number of common units or other securities, these unitholders could cause the price of our common units to decline. 23Table of ContentsOur general partner, as the holder of a majority of the IDRs, may elect to cause us to issue additional common units to it and Golar in connection with a resetting of the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s and Golar’s IDRs without the approval of the conflicts committee of our board of directors or holders of our common units and subordinated units. This may result in lower distributions to holders of our common units in certain situations. Our general partner, as the initial holder of a majority of the IDRs, has the right, at a time when there are no subordinated units outstanding and our general partner and Golar have received incentive distributions at the highest level to which they are entitled (48%) for each of the prior four consecutive fiscal quarters, to reset the initial cash target distribution levels at higher levels based on the distribution at the time of the exercise of the reset election. Following a reset election by our general partner, the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be reset to an amount equal to the average cash distribution amount per common unit for the two fiscal quarters immediately preceding the reset election (such amount is referred to as the “reset minimum quarterly distribution”), and the target distribution levels will be reset to correspondingly higher levels based on the same percentage increases above the reset minimum quarterly distribution amount. In connection with resetting these target distribution levels, our general partner and Golar will be entitled to receive a number of common units equal to that number of common units whose aggregate quarterly cash distributions equaled the average of the distributions to our general partner and Golar on the IDRs in the prior two quarters. We anticipate that our general partner would exercise this reset right in order to facilitate acquisitions or internal growth projects that would not be sufficiently accretive to cash distributions per common unit without such conversion; however, it is possible that our general partner could exercise this reset election at a time when it is experiencing, or may be expected to experience, declines in the cash distributions it receives related to its IDRs and may therefore desire to be issued our common units, rather than retain the right to receive incentive distributions based on the initial target distribution levels. As a result, a reset election may cause our common unitholders to experience dilution in the amount of cash distributions that they would have otherwise received had we not issued additional common units to our general partner in connection with resetting the target distribution levels related to our general partner’s and Golar’s IDRs. We may issue additional equity securities, including securities senior to the common units, without the approval of our unitholders, which would dilute our current unitholders’ ownership interests. We may, without the approval of our unitholders, issue an unlimited number of additional units or other equity securities. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of units that are senior to the common units in right of distribution, liquidation and voting. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease;•the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease;•because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase;•the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and•the market price of the common units may decline. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. During the subordination period, which we define elsewhere in this Annual Report, the common units will have the right to receive distributions of available cash from operating surplus in an amount equal to the minimum quarterly distribution of $0.3850 per unit, plus any arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution on the common units from prior quarters, before any distributions of available cash from operating surplus may be made on the subordinated units. Distribution arrearages do not accrue on the subordinated units. The purpose of the subordinated units is to increase the likelihood that during the subordination period there will be available cash from operating surplus to be distributed on the common units. Upon the expiration of the subordination period, the subordinated units will convert into common units and will then participate pro rata with other common units in distributions of available cash. See “Item 8—Financial Information—Our Cash Distribution Policy.” 24Table of ContentsIn establishing cash reserves, our board of directors may reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that it determines are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. These reserves also will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our board of directors may establish reserves for distributions on the subordinated units, but only if those reserves will not prevent us from distributing the full minimum quarterly distribution, plus any arrearages, on the common units for the following four quarters. As described above in “—Risks Inherent in Our Business—We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain and replace the operating capacity of our fleet, which will reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, each quarter we are required to deduct estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures from operating surplus, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures were deducted,” our partnership agreement requires our board of directors each quarter to deduct from operating surplus estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, as opposed to actual maintenance and replacement capital expenditures, which could reduce the amount of available cash for distribution. The amount of estimated maintenance and replacement capital expenditures deducted from operating surplus is subject to review and change by our board of directors at least once a year, provided that any change must be approved by the conflicts committee of our board of directors. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, but not the obligation, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than the then-current market price of our common units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon the exercise of this limited call right. As a result, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on their investment. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of units. Golar, which owns and controls our general partner, currently owns 19.4% of our common units. At the end of the subordination period, assuming we do not issue any additional common units and the conversion of our subordinated units into common units, Golar will own 40.2% of our common units. Unitholders may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, a unitholder could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if a unitholder participates in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, the limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some jurisdictions in which we do business. We can borrow money to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of credit available to operate our business. Our partnership agreement allows us to make working capital borrowings to pay distributions. Accordingly, if we have available borrowing capacity, we can make distributions on all our units even though cash generated by our operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. Any working capital borrowings by us to make distributions will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings we can make for operating our business. For more information, please read “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. 25Table of ContentsUnitholders may have liability to repay distributions. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. Under the Marshall Islands Limited Partnership Act (or the Marshall Islands Act), we may not make a distribution to unitholders if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Marshall Islands law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Marshall Islands law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Assignees who become substituted limited partners are liable for the obligations of the assignor to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the assignee at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. We have been organized as a limited partnership under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well developed body of partnership law. Our partnership affairs are governed by our partnership agreement and by the Marshall Islands Act. The provisions of the Marshall Islands Act resemble provisions of the limited partnership laws of a number of states in the United States, most notably Delaware. The Marshall Islands Act also provides that it is to be applied and construed to make it uniform with the Delaware Revised Uniform Partnership Act and, so long as it does not conflict with the Marshall Islands Act or decisions of the Marshall Islands courts, interpreted according to the non-statutory law (or case law) of the State of Delaware. There have been, however, few, if any, court cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the Marshall Islands Act, in contrast to Delaware, which has a fairly well-developed body of case law interpreting its limited partnership statute. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions as the courts in Delaware. For example, the rights of our unitholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our general partner under Marshall Islands law are not as clearly established as under judicial precedent in existence in Delaware. As a result, unitholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our general partner and its officers and directors than would unitholders of a similarly organized limited partnership in the United States. Because we are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, our general partner is a Marshall Islands limited liability company, and our directors and officers generally are or will be non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for a unitholder to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if such unitholder believes that its rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if a unitholder is successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict such unitholder from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our general partner or our directors or officers. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, read “Item 4—Information on the Partnership—Taxation of the Partnership,” “Item 10—Additional Information—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” and “—Non-United States Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our common units. Read “Item 3—Key Information—Risk Factors—Risks Inherent in Our Business” for a discussion on risks relating to UK tax leases. 26Table of ContentsU.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which would have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (or PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75.0% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of “passive income” or at least 50.0% of the average value of its assets produce, or are held for the production of, “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property, and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC, and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their interests in the PFIC.Based on our current and projected method of operation, we believe that we were not a PFIC for any taxable year, and we expect that we will not be treated as a PFIC for the current or for any future taxable year. We believe that more than 25.0% of our gross income for each taxable year was or will be nonpassive income and more than 50.0% of the average value of our assets for each such year was or will be held for the production of such nonpassive income. This belief is based on certain valuations and projections regarding our assets, income and charters, and its validity is conditioned on the accuracy of such valuations and projections. While we believe such valuations and projections to be accurate, the shipping market is volatile and no assurance can be given that they will continue to be accurate at any time in the future. Moreover, there are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from time-chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services. In Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), the Fifth Circuit held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a provision of the Code relating to foreign sales corporations. In that case, the Fifth Circuit did not address the definition of passive income or the PFIC rules; however, the reasoning of the case could have implications as to how the income from a time charter would be classified under such rules. If the reasoning of this case were extended to the PFIC context, the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time-chartering activities may be treated as rental income, and we would likely be treated as a PFIC. In published guidance, the Internal Revenue Service, IRS, stated that it disagreed with the holding in Tidewater, and specified that time charters similar to those at issue in the case should be treated as service contracts. We have not sought, and we do not expect to seek, an IRS ruling on the treatment of income generated from our time-chartering activities. As a result, the IRS or a court could disagree with our position. No assurance can be given that this result will not occur. In addition, although we intend to conduct our affairs in a manner to avoid, to the extent possible, being classified as a PFIC with respect to each taxable year, we cannot assure unitholders that the nature of our operations will not change in the future and that we will not become a PFIC in any taxable year. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year (and regardless of whether we remain a PFIC for subsequent taxable years), our U.S. unitholders would face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Please read “Item 10—Additional Information—Taxation—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—PFIC Status and Significant Tax Consequences” for a more detailed discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. unitholders if we are treated as a PFIC. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our cash flow. Under the Code, 50.0% of the gross transportation income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves, that is attributable to transportation that either begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source gross transportation income. U.S. source gross transportation income generally is subject to a 4.0% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction unless the corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. We believe that we and each of our subsidiaries engaged in transportation will qualify for the Section 883 tax exemption for the foreseeable future, and we will take this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances, including some that may be beyond our control, that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption. In addition, our position that we qualify for this exemption is based upon legal authorities that do not expressly contemplate an organizational structure such as ours; specifically, although we have elected to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we are organized as a limited partnership under Marshall Islands law. Therefore, we can give no assurance that the IRS will not take a different position regarding our qualification, or the qualification of any of our subsidiaries, for the Section 883 tax exemption. 27Table of ContentsIf we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries generally would be subject to a 4.0% U.S. federal gross income tax on our U.S. source gross transportation income for such year. Our failure to qualify for the exemption under Section 883 could have a negative effect on our business and would result in decreased earnings available for distribution to our unitholders. The vessels in our fleet do not currently engage, and we do not expect that they will in the future engage, in transportation that begins and ends in the United States, and we do not currently anticipate providing any regasification or storage services within the territorial seas of the United States. If, notwithstanding this expectation, our subsidiaries earn income in the future from regasification or storage services in the United States or from transportation that begins and ends in the United States, that income would not be exempt from U.S. federal income tax under Section 883 of the Code and would be subject to a 35% net income tax in the United States. Please read “Item 4—Information on the Partnership—Taxation of the Partnership—The Section 883 Exemption” for a more detailed discussion of the rules relating to qualification for the exemption under Section 883 and the consequences of failing to qualify for such an exemption.Unitholders may be subject to income tax in one or more non-U.S. jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, as a result of owning our common units if, under the laws of any such jurisdiction, we are considered to be carrying on business there. Such laws may require unitholders to file a tax return with, and pay taxes to, those jurisdictions. We intend to conduct our affairs and cause or influence each of our subsidiaries to operate its business in a manner that minimizes income taxes imposed upon us and our subsidiaries and that may be imposed upon a unitholder as a result of owning our common units. However, because we are organized as a partnership, there is a risk in some jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, that our activities or the activities of our subsidiaries may be attributed to our unitholders for tax purposes if, under the laws of such jurisdiction, we are considered to be carrying on business there. If a unitholder is subject to tax in any such jurisdiction, such unitholder may be required to file a tax return with, and to pay tax in, that jurisdiction based on such unitholder’s allocable share of our income. We may be required to reduce distributions to a unitholders on account of any tax withholding obligations imposed upon us by that jurisdiction in respect of such allocation to such unitholder. The United States may not allow a tax credit for any foreign income taxes that a unitholder directly or indirectly incurs by virtue of an investment in us. We believe we can conduct our affairs in a manner that does not result in our unitholders being considered to be carrying on business in the United Kingdom solely as a consequence of the acquisition, ownership, disposition or redemption of our common units. However, the question of whether either we or any of our subsidiaries will be treated as carrying on business in any jurisdiction, including the United Kingdom, will be largely a question of fact to be determined through an analysis of contractual arrangements, including the fleet management agreements that our subsidiaries have entered into with Golar Management, certain other subsidiaries of Golar and certain third-party vessel managers and the management and administrative service agreement that we have entered into with Golar Management, as well as through an analysis of the manner in which we conduct business or operations, all of which may change over time. Furthermore, the laws of the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction may also change, which could cause that jurisdiction’s taxing authorities to determine that we are carrying on business in such jurisdiction and that we or our unitholders are subject to its taxation laws. In addition to the potential for taxation of our unitholders, any additional taxes imposed on us or any of our subsidiaries will reduce our cash available for distribution.