Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. General Risks Affecting Our Business Weak economic conditions, including high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by weak economic conditions, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment and other factors that may adversely affect the "Digital Set-Top Box" business and providers of pay-TV services, who are our primary customers. In particular, the weak economic conditions may result in the following: •Decreased Demand. Subscribers to pay-TV services may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary spending, which may in turn decrease demand for programming packages from pay TV providers that include set top box equipment manufactured by us. •Increased Pricing Pressure. Increased pricing pressures, which may result in reduced margins for pay-TV companies, including DISH Network and Bell TV, our primary customers, may reduce demand for high-end digital set top boxes on which we earn higher gross margins. Furthermore, pay-TV companies may increasingly look to make purchases from foreign set-top box suppliers primarily located in Asia with lower-priced products as their customers become more cost-sensitive in making purchase decisions as a result of weak economic conditions. •Excess Inventories and Satellite Capacity. There is an increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories as a result of possible lower demand for pay-TV services and the resultant lower demand for digital set-top boxes from pay-TV companies. We may also have excess satellite capacity resulting from possible decreased demand for pay-TV services and other services utilizing satellite transmission. •Increased Impairment Charges. Prolonged weak economic conditions could result in substantial future impairment charges relating to, among other things, satellites, FCC authorizations, and our debt and equity investments. We currently depend on DISH Network Corporation, or DISH Network, and Bell TV for substantially all of our revenue. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes, transponder leasing, digital broadcast operations and/or other products or services to, DISH Network or Bell TV would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. DISH Network accounted for approximately 81.3%, 86.5% and 83.8% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In addition, Bell TV accounted for approximately 10.5%, 8.4% and 10.7% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Any reduction in sales to DISH Network or Bell TV or in the prices they pay for the products and services they purchase from us could have a significant negative impact on our business. In addition, because substantially all of our revenue is tied to DISH Network and Bell TV, our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued success of DISH Network and Bell TV in attracting new subscribers and in marketing programming packages to subscribers that will require the purchase of new digital set-top boxes, and in particular, new digital set-top boxes at the high-end of our product range that incorporate high-definition, multiple tuners and other advanced technology. Moreover, DISH Network has no future obligation to purchase digital set-top boxes from us and existing orders may be cancelled or reduced on short notice. Cancellations or reductions of 16 Table of Contents customer orders, which could rise in weak economic conditions, could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. In addition, the timing of orders for digital set-top boxes from these two customers could vary significantly depending on equipment promotions these customers offer to their subscribers, changes in technology, and their use of remanufactured digital set-top boxes, which may cause our revenue to vary significantly quarter over quarter and could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These inventory risks are particularly acute during end product transitions in which a new generation of digital set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation digital set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Any reduction of customer orders for digital set-top boxes caused by the weak economic conditions may accentuate such risks. Furthermore, because of the competitive nature of the digital set-top box business, the limited number of potential new customers and the short-term nature of our purchase orders with DISH Network and BellTV, we could in the future experience downward pricing pressure on our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network or BellTV, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. DISH Network is currently our primary customer of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operation services. These products and services are provided pursuant to contracts that generally expire on January 1, 2011. However, DISH may renew those contracts in their discretion for up to one additional year. Thereafter, if we are unable to extend those contracts on similar terms with DISH Network, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain acceptable contracts from third parties following a termination by DISH, there could be a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. There are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our digital set-top boxes, satellite services and digital broadcast operations, and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these customers. In addition, we may from time to time enter into customer agreements providing for exclusivity periods during which we may sell a specified product only to that customer. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. Historically, many of our potential customers have perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any commercial relationships with potential customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and management). If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be subject to substantial liability and would be prohibited from offering DVR functionality that would in turn place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and significantly decrease sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and others. In June 2009, the United States District Court granted Tivo's motion for contempt finding that our next-generation DVRs continue to infringe Tivo's intellectual property and awarded Tivo an additional $103 million dollars in supplemental damages and interest for the period from September 2006 through April 2008. In September 2009, the District Court partially granted Tivo's motion for contempt sanctions. In partially granting Tivo's motion for contempt sanctions, the District Court awarded $2.25 per DVR subscriber per month for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 (as compared to the award for supplemental damages for the prior period from September 2006 to April 2008, which was based on an assumed $1.25 per DVR subscriber per month). By the District Court's estimation, the 17 Table of Contents total award for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 is approximately $200 million (the enforcement of the award has been stayed by the District Court pending our appeal of the underlying June 2009 contempt order). If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be required to cease distribution of digital set-top boxes with DVR functionality. In that event, our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and others would likely significantly decrease and could even potentially cease for a period of time. Furthermore, the inability to offer DVR functionality would place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and make it even more difficult for us to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. The adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations if the District Court's contempt order is upheld is likely to be significant. If we are successful in overturning the District Court's ruling on Tivo's motion for contempt, but unsuccessful in defending against any subsequent claim that our original alternative technology or any potential new alternative technology infringes Tivo's patent, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could continue offering DVR functionality and the adverse effect on our business could be material. Because both we and DISH Network are defendants in the Tivo lawsuit, we and DISH Network are jointly and severally liable to Tivo for any final damages and sanctions that may be awarded by the District Court. DISH Network has agreed with us that it is obligated under the agreements entered into in connection with the Spin-off to indemnify us for substantially all liability arising from this lawsuit. We have agreed to contribute an amount equal to our $5 million intellectual property liability limit under the Receiver Agreement. We and DISH Network have further agreed that our $5 million contribution would not exhaust our liability to DISH Network for other intellectual property claims that may arise under the Receiver Agreement. Therefore, during the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge included in "General and administrative expenses—DISH Network" on our Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) of $5 million to reflect this contribution. We and DISH Network also agreed that we would each be entitled to joint ownership of, and a cross-license to use, any intellectual property developed in connection with any potential new alternative technology. Because we are jointly and severally liable with DISH Network, to the extent that DISH Network does not or is unable to pay any damages or sanctions arising from this lawsuit, we would then be liable for any portion of these damages and sanctions not paid by DISH Network. Any amounts that DISH Network may be required to pay could impair its ability to pay us and also negatively impact our future liquidity. If we become liable for any portion of these damages or sanctions, we may be required to raise additional capital at a time and in circumstances in which we would normally not raise capital. Therefore, any capital we raise may be on terms that are unfavorable to us, which might adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and might also impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms in the future to fund our own operations and initiatives. Adverse developments in DISH Network's business may adversely affect us. If DISH Network's gross subscriber additions are adversely affected by the weak economic conditions in the U.S, or for any other reason, we may experience a decline in our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network. 18 Table of Contents We currently have substantial unused satellite capacity, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are not able to utilize more of this capacity. While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of our satellite capacity (including, but not limited to, supplying satellite capacity for new international ventures), we do not have firm plans to utilize all of our satellite capacity. In addition, especially in light of a possible decrease in demand for satellite services as a result of the weak economic conditions, there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop the business opportunities we currently plan to pursue with this capacity. If we are unable to lease our excess satellite capacity, our margins would be negatively impacted and we may be required to record additional impairments related to our other satellites. As a result of our Spin-off from DISH Network, our financial statements for 2007 do not reflect all the assets and lines of business that are reflected in our 2008 and 2009 financial statements, potentially making it more difficult to compare growth and other metrics in 2008 and 2009 with prior periods. The financial information included in this report for 2007, which was prior to the Spin-off, does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent publicly-traded company during 2007. This is primarily a result of the following factors: •Our profits during 2007 do not accurately reflect our operations following the Spin-off as the majority of our operations in 2007 were in support of DISH Network and we provided our products and services to DISH Network at cost during 2007. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability, or that we can grow our business profitably or at all. •The financial condition and results of operations of our "Satellite Services" business are not reflected in our historical financial information for 2007, because our "Satellite Services" business was operated as an integral part of DISH Network's subscription television business and did not constitute a "business" in the historical financial statements of DISH Network. •Sling Media, Inc., one of our subsidiaries, was acquired shortly before the Spin-off, in October 2007, and it was operated for only a short period by us prior to the effective date of the Spin-off on January 1, 2008. •Our financial results prior to the Spin-off reflect allocations of corporate expenses from DISH Network. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as an independent publicly traded company. •Our working capital requirements and capital required for our general corporate purposes were satisfied prior to the Spin-off as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of DISH Network. Following the Spin-off, DISH Network ceased to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. •There are significant differences between our cost structure, financing and business operations before and after the Spin-off. Our sales to DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed on short notice which would have a detrimental effect on us. DISH Network has no obligations to continue to purchase our products and only certain obligations to continue to purchase certain of our services. Therefore, our relationship with DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed with little or no advance notice. Any material reduction in our sales to DISH Network would have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 19 Table of Contents Furthermore, because there are a relatively small number of potential customers for our products and services, if we lose DISH Network as a customer, it will be difficult for us to replace our historical revenues from DISH Network. We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites, and pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Weak financial markets have continued to make it difficult for certain borrowers to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. Instability in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In particular, it may be difficult for us to raise debt financing on acceptable terms in light of the fact that we have never previously raised debt financing. In addition, weak economic conditions may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by weak economic conditions. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. We have entered into certain strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere. These investments involve a high degree of risk and could diminish our ability to fund our stock buyback program, invest capital in our business or return capital to our shareholders. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. These investments could also expose us to significant financial losses and may restrict our ability to make other investments or limit alternative uses of our capital resources. In particular, the laws, regulations and practices of certain countries may make it harder for our investments to be successful. If our investments suffer losses, whether or not as a result of the current weak financial market condition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively or there may be insufficient demand for the services and products offered by these companies. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business which may not be successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Our future success may depend on the existence of, and our ability to capitalize on, opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies or partner with other companies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combination activities to complement or expand our business. In addition, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere. Any such acquisitions, transactions or investments that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: •the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; •possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; 20 Table of Contents •these transactions, which could become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risk and could expose us to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; and/or we are unable to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases or capital expenditures that we otherwise may have made. We intend to make significant investments in new products, services, technologies and business areas that may not be profitable. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services and related technologies, including new digital set-top box designs, as well as entry into new business areas. Investments in new technologies and business areas are inherently speculative and commercial success thereof depends on numerous factors including innovativeness, quality of service and support, and effectiveness of sales and marketing. We may not achieve revenue or profitability from such investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, even if such products, services, technologies and business area become profitable, their operating margins may be minimal. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products infringes valid intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringement. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to license the necessary intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business—Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have not been an independent company for a significant amount of time and we may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. Prior to our Spin-off from DISH Network, our business was operated by DISH Network as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. DISH Network's senior management oversaw the strategic direction of our businesses and DISH Network performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to: •selected human resources related functions; •accounting; •tax administration; •legal and external reporting; •treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and insurance functions; and •selected information technology and telecommunications services. 21 Table of Contents Because we are now an independent company, neither DISH Network nor any of its affiliates have any obligation to provide these functions to us other than those services provided pursuant to the management services agreement and the professional services agreement between us and DISH Network. See "Related Party Transactions with DISH Network—Professional Services Agreement" and "Related Party Transactions with DISH Network—Management Services Agreement" set forth in our Proxy Statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions." If, once the management services agreement and the professional services agreement terminate, we do not have in place our own systems and business functions, we do not have agreements with other providers of these services or we are not able to make these changes cost effectively, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. If DISH Network does not continue to perform effectively the services that are called for under the management services agreement and the professional services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. Although DISH Network has no obligation to provide us services after expiration of the management services agreement and the professional services agreement, we anticipate continuing to receive services from DISH Network following the initial terms of these agreements, and may enter into subsequent similar agreements if we determine that it is beneficial for us to do so. If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. Our businesses change rapidly as new technologies are developed. If we are unable to properly respond to technological developments, our existing products may become obsolete and demand for our products may decline. For example, if changes in technology allow digital television subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, cable ready televisions or network based digital video recording services in place of set-top boxes, our customers may not need to purchase our digital set-top boxes to provide their digital television subscribers with digital video recording and other digital set-top box features. Our competitors may also introduce technologies that compete favorably with our digital set-top boxes or that cause our digital set-top boxes to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If we fail to timely obtain such technologies from our suppliers or introduce products and services with superior technologies, if the new technologies developed by us or our partners fail to achieve sustained acceptance in the marketplace or become obsolete, or if our competitors obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could in turn decrease our revenues and earnings. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. Our response to technological development depends, to a significant degree, on the work by technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of such employees is intense. Although we have strived to attract and retain these employees, we may not succeed in this respect. If we are unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, we may not be able to properly respond to changes in technologies and, as a result, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Mr. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and certain other executives. Certain of these executives will also continue to devote significant time to their employment at DISH Network. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives or the ability of these certain other key executives to devote sufficient time and effort to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and 22 Table of Contents results of operations. Although all of our executives will have certain agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. Risks Affecting Our "Digital Set-Top Box" Business We depend on sales of digital set-top boxes for nearly all of our revenue and a decline in sales of our digital set-top boxes would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our historical revenues consist primarily of sales of our digital set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, nearly all of our revenue from sales of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and Bell TV. If the weak economic conditions persist, demand for digital set-top boxes from our two significant customers could decrease and, consequently, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Furthermore, continued market acceptance of our digital set-top boxes is critical to our future success. If we are not able to expand sales of our digital set-top boxes to other providers of digital television, including cable operators, which is harder to accomplish in weak economic conditions, and as a result of many potential customers perceiving us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network, our growth prospects will be limited, and our revenues will be substantially impacted if sales of our digital set-top boxes to providers of satellite-delivered digital television decline. Our business may suffer if direct-to-home satellite service providers, who currently comprise our customer base, do not compete successfully with existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering digital television, including cable television operators, terrestrial broadcasters and IPTV. Our existing customers are direct-to-home satellite video providers, which compete with cable television operators and terrestrial broadcasters for the same pool of viewers. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, some telecommunications companies, such as AT&T and Verizon Communications, are seeking to compete with terrestrial broadcasters, cable television network operators and direct-to-home satellite services by offering IPTV, which allows telecommunications companies to stream television programs through telephone lines or fiber optic lines. These telecommunications companies are upgrading their older copper wire telephone lines with high-bandwidth fiber optic lines in larger markets. These fiber lines provide significantly greater capacity, enabling the telecommunications companies to offer substantial HD programming content. In addition, cable operators are increasingly offering on-demand television services to compete against the programming packages offered by direct-to-home satellite video providers. To the extent that the terrestrial broadcasters, telecommunications companies and cable television network operators compete successfully against direct-to-home satellite services for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our satellite television digital set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. Our future financial performance depends in part on our ability to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. Our products were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of satellite-delivered digital television. To date, we have not made any significant sales of our digital set-top boxes to cable operators. In addition, the cable set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most cable set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships with cable operators. This competition, and our perception by many potential customers as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network, may make it more difficult for us to sell cable set-top boxes, and 23 Table of Contents may result in pricing pressure, low profit margins, high sales and marketing expenses and limited market share, any of which could, to a certain extent, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be exposed to the risk of inflation or stable component pricing which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from the sale of digital set-top boxes. A significant portion of the production costs of digital set-top boxes relate to the purchase of electronic components, the costs of which have historically fallen over time. To the extent that component pricing does not decline or is impacted by inflation, we may not be able to pass on the impact of increasing raw materials prices or labor and other costs, to our customers, and we may not be able to operate profitably. For example, we entered into a digital set-top box contract extension with Bell TV under which we supply digital set-top boxes to Bell TV at fixed prices over the duration of the contract. Under this fixed-price arrangement, we bear any risk of inflation because we are not able to pass any increase in our component pricing on to Bell TV. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further due to, among other things, an increase in the sales of lower-priced digital set top boxes to DISH Network and increased pricing pressure on our average selling prices, including sales to BellTV as a result of our contract extension with BellTV. Furthermore, our ability to increase the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes is limited and our average selling price may decrease even further in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, lack of demand for our new product introductions or other factors. If we are unable to increase or at least maintain the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes, or if such selling prices further decline, and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by developing and introducing new products and continually reducing our product costs, our revenues and gross margin may be negatively affected, which will harm our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to other operators depends on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems utilized by these other operators. Our commercial success in selling our digital set-top boxes to cable television operators depends significantly on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems deployed by these operators in our digital set-top boxes. In many cases, the intellectual property rights to these conditional access systems are owned by the set-top box manufacturer that currently provides the cable television operator with its set-top boxes. We cannot assure you that we will able to obtain required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain the necessary licenses, we may be delayed or prevented from pursuing the development of some potential products with cable television operators. Our failure to obtain a license to use the conditional access systems that we may require to develop or commercialize our digital set-top boxes with cable television operators in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. Growth in our "Digital Set-Top Box" business likely requires expansion of our sales to international customers, and we may be unsuccessful in expanding international sales. We believe that to grow our digital set-top box revenue and business and to build a large customer base, we must increase sales of our digital set-top boxes in international markets. We have had limited success in selling our digital set-top boxes internationally. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must hire additional sales personnel and develop and manage new relationships with cable 24 Table of Contents operators and other providers of digital television in international markets. In addition, we may be subject to greater risks than our competitors as a result of such international expansion. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our products or services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we provide service. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Furthermore, we may be subject to currency risks with respect to payments from our international customers and our international customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers and deal with these challenges in our international operations, the size of our total addressable market may be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. The digital set-top box business is extremely competitive. Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold set-top boxes to major cable operators in the United States for many years. These competitors include companies such as Motorola, Cisco Systems, which owns Scientific Atlanta, Pace and Technicolor. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing satellite set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies who do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital video providers. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants, principally located in Asia, that offer low cost set-top boxes. The set-top box market is intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing. We expect to face additional competition from companies, principally located in Asia, which offer low cost set-top boxes, including set-top boxes that are modeled after our products or products of our principal competitors. The entry of these new competitors may result in increased pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by such new entrants, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, it may be difficult for us to make profitable sales in international markets where these new competitors are present and in which we have not previously made sales of set-top boxes. If we do not continue to distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our business could be harmed as we may not be able to effectively compete on price alone against new low cost market entrants that are principally located in Asia. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues and earnings could decline. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and may experience quality or supply problems. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture or associated software. Set-top boxes often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with their operation. 25 Table of Contents Defects may also occur in components and products that we purchase from third-parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the digital set-top boxes that we sell. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and harm to our reputation if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for premium programming packages that utilize digital set-top boxes, we may not be able to sustain our current revenue level. We are substantially dependent upon the ability of our customers to promote the delivery of premium programming packages that utilize technology incorporated into our digital set-top boxes, such as HD technology and IPTV, to generate future revenues. However, our customers may be unsuccessful in promoting value-added services or may promote alternative packages, such as free programming packages, in lieu of promoting packages that utilize our high-end digital set-top box offerings. If our customers are unable to develop and effectively market compelling reasons for their subscribers to continue to purchase our more advanced digital set-top boxes, it will be difficult for us to sustain our historical revenues. This risk is exacerbated by the weak economic conditions under which consumers become more cost-sensitive in their discretionary spending. Our reliance on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for several key components used in our digital set-top boxes could restrict production and result in higher digital set-top box costs. We obtain many components for our digital set-top boxes from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on a single or limited group of suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increasing reliance on subcontractors, involves several risks. These risks include a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality, and timely delivery of these components. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstances requiring us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship our digital set-top boxes on a timely basis, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business, resulting in a loss of market share, and reduce revenues and income. We generally maintain low inventory levels and do not make binding long-term commitments to suppliers. As a result, it may be difficult in the future to obtain components required for our products or to increase the volume of components if demand for our products increases. The weak economic conditions may cause certain suppliers that we rely on to cease operations which, in turn, may cause us to suffer disruptions to our supply chain or incur higher production costs. Our future growth depends on growing demand for HDTV. Future demand for our digital set-top boxes will depend significantly on the growing demand for high definition television, or HDTV. The effective delivery of HDTV will depend on digital television operators developing and building infrastructure to provide wide-spread HDTV programming. If the deployment of or demand for HDTV, is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue growth will be limited. Risks Affecting Our "Satellite Services" Business We currently face competition from established competitors in the satellite service business and may face competition from others in the future. In our "Satellite Services" business, we compete against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat, SES Americom and Telesat Holdings. Because the satellite services 26 Table of Contents industry is relatively mature, our growth strategy depends largely on our ability to displace current incumbent providers, which often have the benefit of long-term contracts with customers. These long-term contracts and other factors result in relatively high switching costs for customers, making it more difficult for us to displace customers from their current relationships with our competitors. In addition, the supply of satellite capacity has increased in recent years, which makes it more difficult for us to sell our services in certain markets and to price our capacity at acceptable levels. Competition may cause downward pressure on prices and further reduce the utilization of our fleet capacity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our "Satellite Services" business also competes with fiber optic cable and other terrestrial delivery systems, which may have a cost advantage, particularly in point-to-point applications where such delivery systems have been installed. Our owned and leased satellites in orbit are subject to significant operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers' errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits which pass through the geostationary belt at various points and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our satellites have minimum design lives ranging from 12 to 15 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite's functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of 27 Table of Contents each of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. Our satellites under construction are subject to risks related to construction and launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellite construction and launch are subject to significant risks, including delays, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Construction and launch delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we decide not to procure launch insurance, or we decide to procure launch insurance but we are unable to do so or are unable to obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of launch failures whether on our satellites or those of others may significantly reduce the availability of launch insurance on our satellites or make launch insurance premiums uneconomical. Our "Satellite Services" business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Our "Satellite Services" business is subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the FCC, and other entities, and in foreign countries by similar entities. These regulations are subject to the political process and have been in constant flux over the past decade. Moreover, a substantial number of foreign countries in which we have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the ownership of satellites and the distribution and ownership of programming services and foreign investment in programming companies. Further material changes in law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our business and the business of our affiliates will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. Our business depends on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services available to our customers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers legislation that could affect us and enacts legislation that does affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. 28 Table of Contents We may not be aware of certain foreign government regulations. Because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. We cannot assure you that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate new satellites, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. We, our customers and companies with whom we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our satellites. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our operating results. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are able to design and build satellites according to the technical specifications and standards of quality we require, including Astrium Satellites, Boeing Satellite Systems, Lockheed Martin, Space Systems/Loral and Thales Alenia Space. There are also a limited number of launch service providers able to launch such satellites, including International Launch Services, Arianespace, United Launch Alliance and Sea Launch Company, which has launched several of our satellites and is currently in bankruptcy. The loss of any of our manufacturers or launch service providers could result in the delay of the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Even if alternate suppliers for such services are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and this could result in difficulties or delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Any delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites and do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of launch or in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of such failures. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. Risks Relating to the Spin-Off We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network due to our common ownership and management. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between DISH Network and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between DISH Network and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: •Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We continue to have significant overlap in directors and executive officers with DISH Network, which may lead to conflicting interests. Certain of our executive officers and directors, including Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, also serve as executive officers of DISH Network. Three of these individuals provide us services 29 Table of Contents pursuant to a management services agreement we entered into with DISH Network. Our Board of Directors includes persons who are members of the Board of Directors of DISH Network, including Mr. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of DISH Network and us. The executive officers and the members of our Board of Directors who overlap with DISH Network have fiduciary duties to DISH Network's shareholders. Pursuant to the management services agreement, three of these officers are paid by DISH Network even if their duties include work for EchoStar. Therefore, these individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, there is potential for a conflict of interest when we or DISH Network look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, many of our directors and officers own DISH Network stock and options to purchase DISH Network stock, certain of which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off, including Mr. Ergen, who beneficially owns approximately 51.2% of the total equity and controls approximately 83.5% of the voting power of DISH Network. Mr. Ergen's beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 22,023,267 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 10.0% of the total equity securities and possess approximately 8.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and DISH Network. •Intercompany agreements related to the Spin-off. We entered into agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we pay DISH Network an amount equal to DISH Network's cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by DISH Network for certain of our businesses. We also entered into certain commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are, among other things, obligated to sell at specified prices, digital set-top boxes and related equipment to DISH Network. The terms of certain of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of DISH Network and were not the result of arm's length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between DISH Network and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with DISH Network do not necessarily reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have agreed to. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. •Future intercompany transactions. In the future, DISH Network or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between DISH Network and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the directors on our board who are not also directors on the DISH Network board or a committee of such directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm's length negotiations. •Business opportunities. DISH Network retains its interests in various U.S. and international companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by our businesses. We may also compete with DISH Network when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. 30 Table of Contents We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We do not have any agreements with DISH Network that restrict us from selling our products to competitors of DISH Network, nor do we have any agreement that prevents DISH Network from purchasing products from our competitors. We also do not have any agreements with DISH Network that would prevent us from competing with each other. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our articles of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest for officers and directors of DISH Network who are also officers or directors of us. This policy could restrict our ability to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2009. If in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: •a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share and a non-voting Class D; •a provision that authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; •a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and •a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock that would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. 31 Table of Contents We are controlled by one principal shareholder who is our Chairman. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 46.3% of our total equity securities and possesses approximately 61.2% of the total voting power. Mr. Ergen's beneficial ownership of us excludes 16,276,214 shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 32.1% of our total equity securities and possess approximately 31.7% of our total voting power. Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our shareholders. As a result of Mr. Ergen's voting power, we are a "controlled company" as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, are not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board's selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Mr. Ergen also beneficially owns approximately 51.2% of the total equity and 83.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network and continues to be the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network, which directly and through its subsidiaries continues to be our largest customer, accounting for a substantial majority of our revenues. Mr. Ergen's beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 22,023,267 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 10.0% of the total equity securities and possess approximately 8.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 32 Table of Contents 