Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. General Risks Affecting Our Business Weakening economic conditions, including the recent downturn in financial markets and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by weakening economic conditions, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, rising unemployment, tight credit markets, declines in financial markets and other factors that may adversely affect the digital set-top box business and providers of pay TV services, who are our primary customers. In particular, the continuing economic downturn may result in the following: • Decreased Demand. Consumers of pay TV may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary spending, which may in turn decrease demand for programming packages from pay TV providers that include set top box equipment manufactured by us. • Increased Pricing Pressure. Increased pricing pressures on pay-TV companies, including DISH Network and Bell TV, our primary customers, may reduce demand for high-end set top boxes on which we earn higher gross margins. Furthermore, pay-TV companies may increasingly look to make purchases from foreign set-top box suppliers primarily located in Asia with lower-priced products as their customers become more cost-sensitive in making purchase decisions as a result of current economic conditions. • Excess Inventories and Satellite Capacity. There is an increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories as a result of possible lower demand for pay-TV services and the resultant lower demand for digital set-top boxes from pay-TV companies. We may also have excess satellite capacity resulting from possible decreased demand for pay-TV services and other services utilizing satellite transmission. • Increased Impairment Charges. During 2008 we recorded $613 million in impairment charges related to FCC authorizations, goodwill and certain satellites. A prolonged economic downturn could result in substantial future impairment charges relating to, among other things, satellites, FCC authorizations, and our debt and equity investments. 15 Table of Contents We currently depend on DISH Network Corporation, or DISH Network, and Bell TV, formerly Bell ExpressVu, for substantially all of our revenue. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes, transponder leasing, digital broadcast operations and/or other services to DISH Network or Bell TV would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. DISH Network accounted for approximately 86.5%, 83.8% and 84.1% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, Bell TV accounted for approximately 8.4%, 10.7% and 12.2% of our revenue in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Any reduction in sales to DISH Network or Bell TV or in the prices they pay for the products and services they purchase from us could have a significant negative impact on our business. In addition, because substantially all of our revenue is tied to DISH Network and Bell TV, our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued success of DISH Network and Bell TV in attracting new subscribers and in marketing programming packages to subscribers that will require the purchase of new digital set-top boxes, and in particular, new digital set-top boxes at the high-end of our product range that incorporate high-definition and other advanced technology. Moreover, because our sales to DISH Network are made pursuant to standard purchase orders, DISH Network has no future obligation to purchase digital set-top boxes from us and existing orders may be cancelled or reduced on short notice. Cancellations or reductions of customer orders, which could rise in difficult economic times such as the current economic downturn and are unpredictable, could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. In addition, the timing of orders for digital set-top boxes from these two customers could vary significantly depending on equipment promotions these customers offer to their subscribers, changes in technology, and their use of remanufactured digital set-top boxes, which may cause our revenue to vary significantly quarter over quarter and could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These inventory risks are particularly acute during end product transitions in which a new generation of digital set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation digital set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Any reduction of customer orders for digital set-top boxes caused by the slowdown of the economy may further accentuate such risks. Furthermore, because of the competitive nature of the digital set-top box business, the limited number of potential new customers and the short-term nature of our purchase orders with DISH Network, we could in the future be required to reduce the average selling-prices of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Because DISH Network’s current set-top box inventory is at higher-than-historical levels, we may see fewer orders for digital set-top boxes from DISH Network in the near term. DISH Network is currently our primary customer of satellite services and digital broadcast operation services. Because these services are provided pursuant to contracts that generally expire on January 1, 2010, DISH Network will have no obligation to purchase satellite services or digital broadcast operation services from us after that date. Therefore, if we are unable to extend these contracts on similar terms with DISH Network, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain similar contracts from third parties after that date, there could be a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. There are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our digital set-top boxes, satellite services and digital broadcast operations, and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these customers. In addition, we may from time to time enter into customer agreements providing for exclusivity periods during which we may sell a specified product only to that customer. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. Historically, many of our potential customers have perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any commercial relationships with potential customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and management). 16 Table of Contents Adverse developments in DISH Network’s business, such as the recent termination of its distribution relationship with AT&T, may adversely affect us. AT&T’s distribution agreement with DISH Network terminated on January 31, 2009. AT&T has entered into a new distribution relationship with DirecTV. DISH Network’s distribution relationship with AT&T had been a substantial contributor to our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network over the past several years. For the year ended December 31, 2008, DISH Network disclosed in its annual report on Form 10-K that its relationship with AT&T accounted for approximately 17% of its gross subscriber additions for the year. If DISH Network’s gross subscriber additions are adversely affected by the loss of its distribution relationship with AT&T, we may experience a decline in our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network. Furthermore, DISH Network has in recent quarters experienced declining and negative subscriber growth. To the extent that this trend continues or intensifies as a result of deteriorating economic conditions in the United States or otherwise, sales of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network may decline. We currently have substantial unused satellite capacity, and our results of operations would be materially adversely affected if we are not able to utilize more of this capacity. During 2008, we recorded $316 million of impairment charges relating to our AMC-14, AMC-15, AMC-16 and CMBStar satellites. While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of our satellite capacity (including, but not limited to, supplying satellite capacity for new international ventures), we do not have firm plans to utilize all of our satellite capacity. In addition, especially in light of a possible decrease in demand for satellite services as a result of the weakening economy, there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop the business opportunities we currently plan to pursue with this capacity. If we are unable to lease our excess satellite capacity, our margins would be negatively impacted and we may be required to record additional impairments related to our other satellites. As a result of our Spin-off from DISH Network, our financial statements for prior years do not reflect all the assets and lines of business that are reflected in our 2008 financial statements, potentially making it more difficult to compare growth and other metrics in 2008 with prior periods. The financial information included in this report for periods prior to the Spin-off does not reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as an independent publicly-traded company during those periods. This is primarily a result of the following factors: • Our profits during the periods prior to the Spin-off do not accurately reflect our operations following the Spin-off as the majority of our operations in the periods prior to the Spin-off were in support of DISH Network and we provided our products and services to DISH Network at cost during those periods. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability, or that we can grow our business profitably or at all. • The financial condition and results of operations of our “Satellite Services” business are not reflected in our historical financial information for the periods prior to the Spin-off, because our “Satellite Services” business was operated as an integral part of DISH Network’s subscription television business and did not constitute a “business” in the historical financial statements of DISH Network. • Sling Media was acquired shortly before the Spin-off, in October 2007, and it was operated for only a short period by us prior to the effective date of the Spin-off on January 1, 2008. • Our financial results prior to the Spin-off reflect allocations of corporate expenses from DISH Network. Those allocations may be different from the comparable expenses we would have incurred had we operated as an independent publicly traded company. • Our working capital requirements and capital required for our general corporate purposes were satisfied prior to the Spin-off as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of DISH Network. Following the Spin-off, DISH Network ceased to provide us with funds to finance our working capital or other cash requirements. • There are significant differences between our cost structure, financing and business operations before and after the Spin-off. 17 Table of Contents Our sales to DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed on short notice which would have a detrimental effect on us. Because our sales to DISH Network are primarily made pursuant to short-term contracts, DISH Network has no material obligations to continue to purchase our products and services. Therefore, our relationship with DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed with little or no advance notice. Any material reduction in our sales to DISH Network would have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, because there are a relatively small number of potential customers for our products and services, if we lose DISH Network as a customer, it will be difficult for us to replace our historical revenues from DISH Network. We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, in order to continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites, and to pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Recent developments in the financial markets such as the scarcity of capital have made it more difficult for borrowers to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. The recent reduction in our stock price combined with the instability in the equity markets has made it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In addition, weak market conditions may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by the current adverse credit market. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. We have entered into certain strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere. These investments involve a high degree of risk and could diminish our ability to fund our stock buyback program and invest capital in our business. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. During 2008, we recognized $174 million of impairments on debt and equity securities. These investments could also expose us to further significant financial losses and may restrict our ability to make other investments or limit alternative uses of our capital resources. In particular, the laws, regulations and practices of certain countries may make it harder for our investments to be successful. If our investments suffer losses, whether or not as a result of the current financial market condition, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively or there may be insufficient demand for the services and products offered by these companies. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business which may not be successful and in which we may lose the entire value of our investment. Our future success may depend on opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies or partner with other companies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combination activities in order to complement or expand our business. In addition, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic transactions and investments in the United States, Asia and elsewhere. Any such transactions that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; 18 Table of Contents • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; • these transactions, which could become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risk and could expose us to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; and/or we are unable to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases or capital expenditures that we otherwise may have made. We intend to make significant investments in new products, services, technologies and business areas that may not be profitable. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services and related technologies, including new digital set-top box designs, as well as entry into new business areas. Investments in new products, services, technologies and business areas are inherently speculative and commercial success thereof depends on numerous factors including innovativeness, quality of service and support, and effectiveness of sales and marketing. We may not achieve revenue or profitability from such investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, even if such products, services, technologies and business areas become profitable, their operating margins may be minimal. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products infringes on intellectual property held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products in such a way as to avoid infringing the patent claims. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to obtain the intellectual property at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have not been an independent company for a significant amount of time and we may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. Prior to our Spin-off from DISH Network, our business was operated by DISH Network as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. DISH Network’s senior management oversaw the strategic direction of our businesses and DISH Network performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to: • selected human resources related functions; • accounting; • tax administration; • selected legal functions, as well as external reporting; • treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and insurance functions; and • selected information technology and telecommunications services. Because we are now an independent company, neither DISH Network nor any of its affiliates have any obligation to provide these functions to us other than those services that will be provided by DISH Network pursuant to the services agreement between us and DISH Network. See “Related Party Transactions with DISH Network — Services Agreement” set forth in our Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” If, once this services agreement terminates, we do not have in place our own systems and business functions, we do not have agreements with other 19 Table of Contents providers of these services or we are not able to make these changes cost effectively, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. If DISH Network does not continue to perform effectively the services that are called for under the services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. Although, DISH Network has no obligation to provide us services after expiration of the services agreement, we anticipate continuing to receive services from DISH Network following the initial terms of this agreement, and may enter into a subsequent services agreement if we determine that it is beneficial for us to do so. If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. Our businesses change rapidly as new technologies are developed. If we are unable to properly respond to technological developments, our existing products may become obsolete and demand for our products may decline. For example, if changes in technology allow digital television subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, cable ready televisions or network based digital video recording services in place of set-top boxes, our customers may not need to purchase our digital set-top boxes to provide their digital television subscribers with digital video recording and other digital set-top box features. Our competitors may also introduce technologies that compete favorably with our digital set-top boxes or that cause our digital set-top boxes to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If we fail to timely introduce products and services with superior technologies, if the new technologies developed by us or our partners fail to achieve sustained acceptance in the marketplace or become obsolete, or if our competitors obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could in turn decrease our revenues and earnings. Further, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. Our response to technological development depends, to a significant degree, on the work by technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of such employees is intense. Although we have strived to attract and retain these employees, we may not succeed in this respect. If we are unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, we may not be able to properly respond to changes in technologies and, as a result, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services or the inability to attract and retain them may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and certain other executives. Mr. Ergen and certain of these executives will also continue to devote significant time to their employment at DISH Network. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives or their ability to devote sufficient time and effort to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives have certain agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. Risks Affecting Our “Digital Set-Top Box” Business We depend on sales of digital set-top boxes for nearly all of our revenue and a decline in sales of our digital set-top boxes would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our historical revenues consist primarily of sales of our digital set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, nearly all of our revenue from sales of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and Bell TV. If the current economic downturn persists, demand for digital set-top boxes from our two significant customers could decrease and, consequently, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. Furthermore, continued market acceptance of our digital set-top boxes is critical to our future success. If we are not able to expand sales of our digital set-top boxes to other providers of digital television, including cable operators, which is harder to accomplish in an economic slowdown, our growth prospects will be limited, and our revenues 20 Table of Contents will be substantially impacted if sales of our digital set-top boxes to providers of satellite-delivered digital television decline. Our business may suffer if direct-to-home satellite service providers, who currently comprise our customer base, do not compete successfully with existing and emerging alternative platforms for delivering digital television, including cable television operators, terrestrial broadcasters, and internet protocol television. Our existing customers are direct-to-home satellite video providers, which compete with cable television operators and terrestrial broadcasters for the same pool of viewers. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, some telecommunications companies, such as AT&T and Verizon Communications, are seeking to compete with terrestrial broadcasters, cable television network operators and direct-to-home satellite services by offering internet protocol television, which allows telecommunications companies to stream television programs through telephone lines or fiber optic lines. These telecommunications companies are upgrading their older copper wire telephone lines with high-bandwidth fiber optic lines in larger markets. These fiber lines provide significantly greater capacity, enabling the telecommunications companies to offer substantial HD programming content. In addition, cable operators are increasingly offering on-demand television services to compete against the programming packages offered by direct-to-home satellite video providers. To the extent that the terrestrial broadcasters, telecommunications companies and cable television network operators compete successfully against direct-to-home satellite services for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our satellite television digital set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. Our future financial performance depends in part on our ability to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. Our products were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of satellite-delivered digital television. To date, we have not made any significant sales of our digital set-top boxes to cable operators. In addition, the cable set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most cable set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships with cable operators. This competition may make it more difficult for us to sell cable set-top boxes, and may result in pricing pressure, low profit margins, high sales and marketing expenses and limited market share, any of which could, to a certain extent, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be exposed to the risk of inflation which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from the sale of digital set-top boxes. A significant portion of the production costs of digital set-top boxes relate to the purchase of electronic components, the costs of which have historically fallen over time. To the extent that component pricing does not decline or is impacted by inflation, we may not be able to pass on the impact of increasing raw materials prices or labor and other costs, to our customers, and we may not be able to operate profitably. For example, we recently entered into a digital set-top box contract extension with Bell TV under which we supply digital set-top boxes to Bell TV at fixed prices over the duration of the contract. Under this fixed-price arrangement, we bear any risk of inflation because we could not pass increasing costs on to Bell TV. The average selling price of our digital set-top boxes may decrease, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. It is possible that our ability to increase the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes will be limited and that prices may decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors or other factors. If we are unable to increase or at least maintain the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes, or if such selling prices decline, and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by developing and introducing new products and continually reducing our product costs, our revenues and gross margin may be negatively affected, which will harm our business and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to other operators depends on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems utilized by these other operators. Our commercial success in selling our digital set-top boxes to cable television operators depends significantly on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems deployed by these operators in our digital set-top boxes. In many cases, the intellectual property rights to these conditional access systems are owned by the set-top box manufacturer that currently provides the cable television operator with its set-top boxes. We cannot assure you that we will able to obtain required licenses on commercially favorable terms, if at all. If we do not obtain the necessary licenses, we may be delayed or prevented from pursuing the development of some potential products with cable television operators. Our failure to obtain a license to any technology that we may require to develop or commercialize our digital set-top boxes with cable television operators will significantly and negatively affect our business. Growth in our “Digital Set-Top Box” business likely requires expansion of our sales to international customers; we may be unsuccessful in expanding international sales. We believe that in order to grow our digital set-top box revenue and business and to build a large customer base, we must increase sales of our digital set-top boxes in international markets. We have limited experience selling our digital set-top boxes internationally. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must hire additional sales personnel and develop and manage new relationships with cable operators and other providers of digital television in international markets. In addition, we may be subject to greater risks than our competitors as a result of such international expansion. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our products or services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we provide service. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Furthermore, we may be subject to currency risks with respect to payments from our international customers and our international customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers and deal with these challenges in our international operations, the size of our total addressable market may be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. The digital set-top box business is extremely competitive. Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold set-top boxes to major cable operators in the United States for many years. These competitors include companies such as Motorola, Cisco Systems, which owns Scientific Atlanta, and Pace. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing satellite set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies who do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital video providers. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants, principally located in Asia, that offer low cost set-top boxes. The set-top box market is intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing. We expect to face additional competition from companies, principally located in Asia, which offer low cost set-top boxes, including set-top boxes that are modeled after our products or products of our principal competitors. The entry of these new competitors may result in pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by such new entrants, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, it may be difficult for us to make profitable sales in 22 Table of Contents international markets where these new competitors are present and in which we have not previously made sales of set-top boxes. If we do not continue to distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as continue to build and strengthen our brand recognition, our business could be harmed as we may not be able to effectively compete on price alone against new low cost market entrants that are principally located in Asia. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues and earnings could decline. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and may experience quality or supply problems. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture or associated software. Set-top boxes often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with their operation. Defects may also occur in components and products that we purchase from third-parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the digital set-top boxes that we sell. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and harm to our reputation if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for premium programming packages that utilize digital set-top boxes, we may not be able to sustain our current revenue level. We are substantially dependent upon the ability of our customers to promote the delivery of premium programming packages that utilize technology incorporated into our digital set-top boxes, such as HD technology and IPTV, to generate future revenues. However, our customers may be unsuccessful in promoting value-added services or may promote alternative packages, such as free programming packages, in lieu of promoting packages that utilize our high-end digital set-top box offerings. If our customers are unable to develop compelling reasons for their subscribers to continue to purchase our more advanced digital set-top boxes, it will be difficult for us to sustain our historical revenues. This risk is exacerbated by the weakening economic condition under which consumers become more cost-sensitive in their discretionary spending. Our reliance on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for several key components used in our digital set-top boxes could restrict production and result in higher digital set-top box costs. We obtain many components for our digital set-top boxes from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on a single or limited group of suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increasing reliance on subcontractors, involves several risks. These risks include a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality, and timely delivery of these components. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstances requiring us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship our digital set-top boxes on a timely basis, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business, resulting in a loss of market share, and reduce revenues and income. We generally maintain low inventory levels and do not make binding long-term commitments to suppliers. As a result, it may be difficult in the future to obtain components required for our products or to increase the volume of components if demand for our products increases. The current economic downturn and tightened credit markets may cause certain suppliers that we rely on to cease operations which, in turn, may cause us to suffer disruptions to our supply chain or incur higher production costs. 23 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on market acceptance of HDTV. Future demand for our digital set-top boxes will depend significantly on the growing market acceptance of high definition television, or HDTV. The effective delivery of HDTV will depend on digital television operators developing and building infrastructure to provide wide-spread HDTV programming. If the introduction or adoption of HDTV or the deployment of HDTV is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue growth will be limited. If we are unsuccessful in defending Tivo’s litigation against us, we could be prohibited from offering DVR technology that would in turn put us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors. During 2008, Tivo filed a motion for contempt alleging that our next-generation DVRs continue to infringe a patent held by Tivo. If we are unsuccessful in defending against Tivo’s motion for contempt or any subsequent claim that our alternative technology infringes Tivo’s patent, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs or could be required to modify or eliminate certain user-friendly DVR features that we currently offer to consumers. In that event we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could offer this functionality and, while we would attempt to provide that functionality through other manufacturers, the adverse affect on our business could be material. To the extent that DISH Network does not indemnify us, we could also be required to pay substantial additional damages. Risks Affecting Our “Satellite Services” Business We currently face competition from established competitors in the satellite service business and may face competition from others in the future. In our “Satellite Services” business, we compete against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat, SES Americom and Telesat Holdings. Because the satellite services industry is relatively mature, our growth strategy depends largely on our ability to displace current incumbent providers, which often have the benefit of long-term contracts with customers. These long-term contracts and other factors result in relatively high switching costs for customers, making it more difficult for us to displace customers from their current relationships with our competitors. In addition, the supply of satellite capacity has increased in recent years, which makes it more difficult for us to sell our services in certain markets and to price our capacity at acceptable levels. Competition may cause downward pressure on prices and further reduce the utilization of our fleet capacity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our “Satellite Services” business also competes with fiber optic cable and other terrestrial delivery systems, which may have a cost advantage, particularly in point-to-point applications where such delivery systems have been installed. Our satellites are subject to significant operational and atmospheric risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite manufacturers’ errors, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. 24 Table of Contents Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits which pass through the geostationary belt at various points and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our satellites have minimum design lives of 12 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites is 12 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. Our satellites are subject to risks related to launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellite launches are subject to significant risks, including delays, launch failure, or incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Such significant delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we decide not to procure launch insurance, or we decide to procure launch insurance but we are unable to do so or are unable to obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of launch failures whether on our satellites or those of others may significantly reduce the availability of launch insurance on our satellites or make launch insurance premiums uneconomical. Our “Satellite Services” business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Our “Satellite Services” business is subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the FCC, and other entities, and in foreign countries by similar entities. These regulations are subject to the political process and have been in constant flux over the past decade. Moreover, a substantial number of foreign countries in which we have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the ownership of satellites and the distribution and ownership of programming services and foreign investment in programming companies. Further material changes in law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our business and the business of our affiliates will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. 25 Table of Contents Our business depends substantially on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services available to our customers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the location of the frequency used or the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers and enacts legislation that could affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. We may not be aware of certain foreign government regulations. Because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. We cannot assure you that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate new satellites, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. We, our customers and companies with whom we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our satellites. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our operating results. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are able to design and build satellites according to the technical specifications and standards of quality we require, including Astrium Satellites, Boeing Satellite Systems, Lockheed Martin, Loral and Thales Alenia Space. There are also a limited number of agencies able to launch such satellites, including International Launch Services, Arianespace, United Launch Alliance and Sea Launch Company. The loss of any of our manufacturers or launch agencies could result in the delay of the design, building or launch of our satellites. Even if alternate suppliers for such services are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and this could result in difficulties or delays in the design, manufacturing or launch of our satellites. Any delays in the design, building or launch of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently have no commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we own and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites and do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of satellite failure. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. 26 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Spin-Off We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between DISH Network and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between DISH Network and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We continue to have significant overlap in directors and executive officers with DISH Network, which may lead to conflicting interests. Certain of our executive officers, including Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, also serve as executive officers of DISH Network. Three of these individuals provide us services pursuant to a management services agreement we entered into with DISH Network. Our board of directors includes persons who are members of the board of directors of DISH Network, including Mr. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of DISH Network and us. The executive officers and the members of our board of directors who overlap with DISH Network have fiduciary duties to DISH Network’s shareholders. Pursuant to the management services agreement, three of these officers are paid by DISH Network even if their duties include work for EchoStar. Therefore, these individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, there is potential for a conflict of interest when we or DISH Network look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, many of our directors and officers own DISH Network stock and options to purchase DISH Network stock, which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off, including Mr. Ergen, who beneficially owns approximately 42.0% of the total equity and controls approximately 58.0% of the voting power of DISH Network. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 88,496,990 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 33.0% of our total equity securities and possess approximately 34.0% of the total voting power of DISH Network. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and DISH Network. • Intercompany agreements related to the Spin-off. We entered into agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we pay DISH Network an amount equal to DISH Network’s cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by DISH Network for certain of our businesses. We also entered into certain commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are, among other things, obligated to sell at specified prices, digital set-top boxes and related equipment to DISH Network. The terms of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of DISH Network and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between DISH Network and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with DISH Network do not necessarily reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have agreed to. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. • Future intercompany transactions. In the future, DISH Network or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between DISH Network and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board or a committee of disinterested directors, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm’s length negotiations. • Business opportunities. DISH Network retains its interests in various U.S. and international companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by our businesses. We may also compete with DISH Network when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We do not have any agreements with DISH Network that restrict us from selling our products to competitors of DISH Network, nor do we have any agreement that prevents DISH Network from purchasing products from our competitors. We also do not have any agreements with DISH Network that would prevent us from competing with each other. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our articles of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest for officers and directors of DISH Network who are also officers or directors of us. This policy could restrict our ability to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008, if in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share and a non-voting Class D; • a provision that authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and • a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock which would allow our board of directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We are controlled by one principal shareholder who is our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owns approximately 53.0% of our total equity securities and possesses approximately 87.0% of the total voting power. Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our shareholders. As a result of Mr. Ergen’s voting power, we are a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, are not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of 28 Table of Contents our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Mr. Ergen also beneficially owns approximately 42.0% of the total equity and 58.0% of the total voting power of DISH Network and continues to be the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network, which directly and through its subsidiaries continues to be our largest customer, accounting for a substantial majority of our revenues. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 88,496,990 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 33.0% of our total equity securities and possess approximately 34.0% of the total voting power. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 