D. Risk Factors You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below and our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In any such case, the market price of our ADSs could decline. Risks Related to Our Company and Our Industry We incurred recurring loss and experienced negative cash flow of operations; We recorded net losses of US$12.6 million, US$246.5 million and US$24.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, and our current liabilities exceeded its current assets by $17,344,344 as of December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $38,949,359 with bank borrowings due within one year of $26,340,338 and consideration payable in relation to DMG Acquisition of $75,800,047. This uncertainty may create additional concerns for our creditors, suppliers, customers and other counterparties, which may make it more difficult for us to conduct our business and meet our debt and other obligations. Moreover, our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty; and the adjustments could be substantial. Due to the current and on-going deteriorating advertising industry market conditions in China and overall global economic slowdown, we have scaled back certain of our businesses. The sustainability of the China advertising industry in the current macroeconomic environment is likely to continue to adversely affect demand for our service. In order to mitigate the above factors, we have the following plans and actions: · We have taken or are in the process of taking a number of initiatives to reduce costs and improve working capital management. We have been negotiating with a number of vendors, including vendors of concession right contracts, for them to provide us with lower prices or more favorable payment terms in order to achieve cost savings. We have decided to postpone a substantial portion of our planned capital expenditures for our mobile digital television network for the next twelve months. In addition, we have implemented measures to more closely monitor the collection of receivable balances with an aim to improving liquidity. 5 Table of Contents · On April 30, 2014, we entered into a settlement agreement, a subscription agreement and a note instrument, or collectively, the Settlement Arrangement, with Gobi Ventures, Inc., formerly known as Gobi Partners, Inc., Gobi Fund, Inc., Gobi Fund II, L.P., Oak Investment Partners XII, L.P. and Thomas Gai Tei Tsao, or collectively, the Former DMG Shareholders, to settle the litigation with them. Under the Settlement Arrangement, we agreed to (a) release the entire amount of the indemnity escrow fund currently deposited in the designated escrow account as set out in Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report (consisting of US$4 million and 847,601 of our common shares, to be converted to ADSs, plus interest accrued), (b) pay US$12 million cash, including the funds of US$4.5 million held by the Sheriff as set out in Note 18(c) to the Former DMG Shareholders and (c) issue the convertible promissory notes, or the Notes, with principal amount of US$58 million to the Former DMG Shareholders. The Notes will be redeemed by us in installments on each anniversary of the issue date from the first to the sixth anniversaries of the issue date, at the amount of US$4 million, US$5 million, US$13.5 million, US$16.5 million, US$16 million and US$3 million, respectively. Interest on the Notes is accrued at a rate of our actual weighted average borrowing rate per annum. The Notes are convertible at the elections of the holders of the Notes in certain scenarios as provided under the Settlement Arrangement, or Certain Scenarios. We believe that, taking into account the issuance of the Notes, adequate sources of liquidity will exist to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, to meet its liabilities related to litigation with Former DMG Shareholders, and to meet short term debt obligations, other liabilities and commitments as they become due. The prolonged global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The prolonged global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth, in the United States, China and other parts of the world. The current European debt crisis and related financial restructuring efforts, including in Greece, Italy, Spain, Portugal and Ireland, are contributing to instability in global financial markets, which adversely affects consumer confidence, the cost of borrowing and economic activity. This global economic and financial market crisis has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs, the volatility of which has increased as a result of the disruptions in the financial markets. It may also impair our ability to borrow funds or enter into other financial arrangements if and when additional funds become necessary for our operations. We believe many of our advertisers have also been affected by the recent economic turmoil. Current or potential advertisers may no longer be in business, may be unable to fund advertising purchases or determine to reduce purchases, all of which would lead to reduced demand for our advertising services, reduced gross margins, and increased delays of payments of accounts receivable or defaults of payments. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given our fixed media costs associated with our operations. Therefore, if the current economic downturn continues, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the timing and nature of the continued recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. We began operations in April 2005. We entered into our first direct investment arrangement in Chengdu in May 2005, and we secured our principal exclusive mobile digital television advertising agency arrangements on buses in Beijing and Shenzhen in October and December 2006, respectively. We secured our principal exclusive mobile digital television advertising agency arrangements on subways in Shenzhen and Beijing in May and August 2007, respectively. Accordingly, we have a very limited operating history upon which you can evaluate the viability and sustainability of our business and its acceptance by advertisers and consumers. It is also difficult to evaluate the viability of our mobile digital television-advertising network on mass transportation systems because we do not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies using new forms of advertising media and entering new and rapidly evolving markets. These circumstances may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business and prospects. In addition, due to our short operating history and recent additions to our management team, some of our senior management and employees have only worked together at our company for a relatively short period of time. As a result, it may be difficult for you to evaluate the effectiveness of our senior management and other key employees and their ability to address future challenges to our business. 6 Table of Contents We have incurred net losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We incurred a net loss of US$12.6 million, US$246.5 million and US$24.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We pay media costs, the components of which are detailed in Item 5A “Operating Results — Cost of Revenues — Advertising Service Cost — Media Costs”, to our local operating partners for operating our advertising business on buses and subways. These costs constitute a significant portion of our cost of revenues and accounted for approximately 56.9%, 83.9% and 69.6% of our total revenues in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, in respect of the exclusive agency agreements for our bus platforms, nine were entered into with our direct investment entities and seven were entered into with independent local operating partners. In respect of the exclusive agency agreements for our subway platforms, one agreement was entered into with one of our direct investment entities and all other agreements were entered into with independent local operating partners across six cities in the PRC. Our exclusive agency agreements typically have terms ranging from three to ten years, and do not contain any renewal provisions. Upon expiration of the exclusive agency agreements, we will discuss renewal of the agreements with our local operating partners, and the detailed terms of the new exclusive agency agreements will be negotiated at that time. The exclusive agency agreements cannot be terminated before expiration of the term unless agreed by both parties, and the party who initiates the early termination is subject to penalty at an amount specified in the respective agreement. Our media costs each year from these agreements is fixed and is determined upfront at the time when the contracts were signed. We negotiate each of our exclusive agency agreements with our local operating partners on a case-by-case basis and determine the amount of the media cost for each year under the agreement through the process of negotiation. All of our exclusive agency agreements contain escalation clauses to increase the media cost at pre-determined fixed amounts each year under the agreements, except for (i) two exclusive agency agreements that in aggregate accounted for less than 5% of our media cost and (ii) one exclusive agency agreement that has a fixed media cost for the first six years with an annual increase in the media cost beginning in the seventh year. However, our revenues may fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of, among others, seasonality, customer loyalty, competition and changes in regulations. If our revenues decrease in a given period, we may be unable to reduce our cost of revenues as a significant portion of our cost of revenues is fixed, which could materially, adversely affect our results of operations, and result in a net loss in that period. We may incur impairment loss on intangible assets and goodwill in the future, which would adversely affect our financial condition and result of operations. We are required under U.S. GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of goodwill and our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, such as a decline of growth in our industry, may have an adverse impact on the operating result of the acquired businesses. We evaluate the amounts of the goodwill and amortizable intangible assets for impairment based on the forecasts of financial performances of the acquired businesses which in turn are based on various assumptions. Although we did not incur impairment loss on intangible assets and goodwill in 2011 and 2013, we may incur such impairment loss in the future. These impairment charges will have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations arising from future potential acquisitions. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Critical Accounting Policies — Goodwill and Intangible Assets”. If PRC regulators order one or more of our local operating partners to stop their mobile digital television operations due to violations of applicable regulations, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. On March 17, 2014, the PRC State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, promulgated the Notice Concerning Regulating Development of Mobile Digital Television, or the March 2014 Notice. The March 2014 Notice regulates mobile digital television operations and mainly consists of the following provisions: 7 Table of Contents · mobile digital television business shall be operated by municipal or provincial radio and television stations, and satisfy the following requirements: · the mobile digital television operations shall comply with the overall plan and layout of mobile digital television determined by SARFT; · mobile digital television operations shall be conducted in cities of a relatively high level of economic and social development, which should be with no less than 2,000 buses in total, or with subway or light railway transportation system; · the equity fund, equipments, worksite and professional personnel required for the operations of mobile digital television shall be in line with the relevant business scale; · there shall be a sound system in place for the review, broadcasting and monitoring of programs on mobile digital television; · the business operator shall have program resources which are in compliance with relevant state regulations and in line with its business scale; · the technical system shall meet the industrial and technical standards required by the relevant state regulations; · permit of radio and television program transmission shall be obtained for the integrated signal transmission platform which shall be regulated by SARFT and be qualified with; · mobile digital television operations that are newly conducted after the March 2014 Notice shall obtain approval of SARFT; · mobile digital television operations shall comply with Measures of Administration of Advertisement Broadcasting of Radio and Television promulgated by SARFT, including restrictions on total advertising time, frequency, content and format of advertisements; · the national digital mobile television standards have been established and all mobile digital television operations shall comply with such national standards; and · the Notice Concerning Experimental Mobil Digital Television previously promulgated by SARFT, or the March 2006 Notice, has been repealed from the date of March 17, 2014. These regulations apply directly to our local mobile digital television operating partners because they are in the business of operating mobile digital television networks. SARFT and its local branches have the authority to order any mobile digital television operators who have violated the March 2014 Notice or other applicable laws or regulations to stop operating their mobile digital television networks. SARFT or its local branches may order any of our local operating partners to stop their operations. If any of our local operating partners is ordered to stop their mobile digital television operations, we may not be able to continue our advertising business in the affected city through other media or channels at acceptable costs, or at all. In which case, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against, government actions and civil suits based on the content and services we provide through our mobile digital television advertising network. PRC advertising laws and regulations require advertisers, advertising operators and advertising distributors, including businesses such as ours and our local operating partners’, to ensure that the content of the advertisements they prepare or distribute is fair, accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. Violation of these laws, rules or regulations may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an advertisement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, the PRC government may revoke a violator’s license for its advertising business operations. As an operator of an advertising medium, we are obligated under PRC laws, rules and regulations to monitor the advertising content aired on our network or supplemental subway advertising platform for compliance with applicable laws. Although the advertisements shown on our network generally have previously been broadcast over public television networks and have been subjected to internal review and verification by these broadcasters, we are required to separately and independently review and verify these advertisements for content compliance before displaying these advertisements. In addition, for advertising content related to special types of products and services, such as alcohol, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and medical procedures, we are required to confirm that the advertisers have obtained requisite government approvals including the advertisers’ operating qualifications, proof of quality inspection of the advertised products, government pre-approval of the contents of the advertisement and filing with the local authorities. We employ, and our local direct investment entities are required by the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations to employ, qualified advertising inspectors who are trained to review advertising content for compliance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. We endeavor to comply with such requirements, including by requesting relevant documents from the advertisers. Our reputation will be tarnished and our results of operations may be adversely affected if advertisements shown on our mobile digital television advertising network or supplemental subway advertising platform are provided to us by our advertising clients in violation of relevant PRC content laws and regulations, or if the supporting documentation and government approvals provided to us by our advertising clients in connection with such advertising content are not complete, or if the advertisements that our local operating partners have broadcast on our network have not received required approvals from the relevant local supervisory bodies, or if the advertisements are not content compliant. All forms of outdoor advertisements must be registered before dissemination with the local branches of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, and advertising distributors are required to submit a registration application form as well as the content of the advertisement to the local SAIC branch in order to receive an advertising registration certificate. The applicable PRC laws and regulations are not clear as to whether advertising on public transportation systems or other out-of-home locations would be considered outdoor advertising. In practice, local SAIC branches have discretion in determining whether such advertising constitutes outdoor advertising which would require registration with the relevant local SAIC branch. Local SAIC branches in different regions of the PRC may reach different conclusions with respect to this issue and such conclusions may also be subject to further revisions or amendments. All of our local operating partners are affiliates or subsidiaries of state-owned television stations operating under SARFT, and the senior management of the state-owned television stations consists of appointed government officials. The competent government authority grants state-owned television stations the authority to review and approve the broadcasting advertisements. These state-owned television stations have confirmed that advertisements can be broadcast on mobile digital television without being classified as outdoor advertising. We and each of our local operating partners do not believe that advertising activity on public transportation constitutes “outdoor advertising” and therefore do not believe that registration with the SAIC is necessary. None of our local operating partners or direct investment entities has renewed or completed the outdoor advertising registration, and as of December 31, 2013, none of our local operating partners or direct investment entities was required by the local SAIC to apply for such registration or was fined or penalized for failing to complete such registration. Furthermore, none of our local operating partners expects the SAIC to levy any fines or sanctions in the future. Our local operating partners have expressed to us their willingness to fully comply with all relevant rules and regulations, including registering with the SAIC, and we therefore believe our local operating partners will be able to apply for the appropriate registrations in the event that the SAIC or the competent government authority determines that such registrations are required. As a precaution to cope with such legal uncertainty, our direct investment entities in Haerbin and Zhengzhou had completed the required registrations, but these registrations have already expired in 2008. Currently, our local operating partners have advised us that they do not believe such registrations are necessary, and none of our local operating partners is planning to submit registration applications to the SAIC. If advertising on public transportation systems or other out-of-home locations is determined by a local SAIC branch to be outdoor advertising and a registration is not effected as required by the local SAIC branch, our local operating partner or direct investment entity in the jurisdiction city of the local SAIC branch would be subject to a fine and may be ordered to stop disseminating the advertisements and as a result, our business in that city would be materially and adversely affected, which may have a material and adverse effect in our overall business. 9 Table of Contents Moreover, civil claims may be filed against us for fraud, defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of the information displayed on our advertising network. If viewers find the content displayed on our advertising network to be offensive, bus and subway companies that display our content on their buses and subway platforms may seek to hold us responsible for any claims by their passengers or they may terminate their relationships with us. We may encounter cyber-attacks, which may result in material adverse effect on our business operation, financial condition and reputation. If the security of the broadcasting network we use to send our signals is breached despite the efforts of our local operating partners to ensure the security of the content management system, and unauthorized images, text or audio sounds are displayed on our advertising network, viewers or the PRC government may find these images, text or audio sounds to be offensive, which may subject us to civil liability or government censure. Any such cyber-attack incidents may disrupt our services and result in significant damages and material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may suffer negative consequences, such as litigation, monetary liabilities, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues and reputational damages. If our advertising viewers do not believe our content is reliable or secure, our business model may become less appealing to viewers in China and our advertising clients may be unwilling to place advertisements on our advertising network. Our local operating partner’s incomplete application, refusal to register and non-compliance with PRC registration may cause our operations, financial condition and results of operations be materially and adversely affected. All forms of outdoor advertisements must be registered before dissemination with the local branches of the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, or SAIC, which regulates advertising companies, and advertising distributors are required to submit a registration application form as well as the content of the advertisement to the local SAIC branch in order to receive an advertising registration certificate. The applicable PRC laws and regulations are not clear as to whether advertising on public transportation systems or other out-of-home locations would be considered “outdoor advertising”. In practice, local SAIC branches have discretion in determining whether such advertising constitutes outdoor advertising which would require registration with the relevant local SAIC branch. Local SAIC branches in different regions of the PRC may reach different conclusions with respect to this issue and such conclusions may also be subject to further revisions or amendments. All of our local operating partners are affiliates or subsidiaries of state-owned television stations operating under SARFT, and the senior management of the state-owned television stations consists of appointed government officials. The competent government authority grants state-owned television stations the authority to review and approve the broadcasting advertisements. These state-owned television stations have confirmed that advertisements can be broadcast on mobile digital television without being classified as outdoor advertising. We and each of our local operating partners do not believe that advertising activity on public transportation constitutes “outdoor advertising” and therefore do not believe that registration with the SAIC is necessary. All of the existing SAIC registrations by our local operating partners have already expired in 2008. As a result, 100% of our revenues in 2011, 2012, and 2013 were derived from cities where our local operating partners do not have an advertising registration certificate from the SAIC. Therefore, all of our revenues would be impacted in case of a regulatory enforcement action by SAIC. None of our local operating partners or direct investment entities has renewed or completed the outdoor advertising registration, and as of December 31, 2013, none of our local operating partners or direct investment entities was required by the local SAIC to apply for such registration or was fined or penalized for failing to complete such registration. Furthermore, none of our local operating partners expects the SAIC to levy any fines or sanctions in the future. Our exclusive agency agreements with each of our local operating partners or our joint venture agreements with our local operating partners require them to comply with all relevant laws and regulations, which include obtaining any approvals necessary to legally provide advertising time to us. Our local operating partners have expressed to us their willingness to fully comply with all relevant PRC rules and regulations during our conversations with them. Although no written assurances have been provided, our local operating partners have orally expressed their willingness to register with the SAIC in the event that the SAIC or the competent government authority determines that such registrations are required. If advertising on public transportation systems or other out-of-home locations is determined by a local SAIC branch to be outdoor advertising, it will take SAIC as long as seven working days to review and approve an outdoor advertising registration after its acceptance of application filed by our local operating partner or direct investment entity. And if a registration is not effected as required by the local SAIC branch, our local operating partner or direct investment entity in the jurisdiction city of the local SAIC branch would be subject to a fine up to RMB 30,000, confiscation of advertising fees and may be ordered to stop disseminating the advertisements. As a result, our business in that city would be materially and adversely affected, which may have a material and adverse effect on our overall business. 10 Table of Contents SARFT determined that the regulations on radio and television advertising operation are applicable to advertising on mobile digital television by promulgating the March 2014 Notice, our business and prospects could be harmed. SARFT promulgated Measures of Administration of Advertisement Broadcasting of Radio and Television in 2009, or the 2009 Regulation. The 2009 Regulation became effective on January 1, 2010 and is applicable to advertisement broadcasting on all radio and television stations and channels. This regulation contains a number of restrictions, including that the total advertising time of a radio or television station or channel shall not be greater than 12 minutes each hour. On average, we sold 8.78, 6.53 and 7.43 advertising minutes per broadcasting hour for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Pursuant to the March 2014 Notice, mobile digital television operations shall comply with the 2009 Regulation. In which case, our future revenues could be significantly impacted by such enforcement action by SARFT for the 2009 Regulation on the mobile digital television industry. Even though our PRC legal counsel has advised that under the relevant PRC laws and regulations, we are able to enforce those media contracts against our state-owned local operating partners and there is no limitation on the enforceability of those media contracts, if any of the foregoing regulatory enforcement actions occurs, the total advertising time on our network will be limited. As the annual increase of our media costs is already agreed in our media contracts and such contracts do not contain any provisions to decrease the media costs in the event that the total advertising time on the network of local operating partners is limited, a regulatory limitation on the advertising time would limit our potential revenues, while our media costs continue to increase. Our business, advertising service revenue and operating results may therefore be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents Our failure to maintain relationships with local television stations or local mobile digital television companies would harm our business and prospects. Our ability to generate revenues from advertising sales depends largely upon our ability to air advertisements on large mobile digital television networks on mass transportation systems in cities. This, in turn, requires that we develop and maintain business relationships with local television stations, local mobile digital television companies, local governments, and mass transportation services through which we obtain programming, broadcasting and space for our mobile digital television advertising networks. As of December 31, 2013, we provided advertising services mainly through our network and supplemental subway advertising platform with approximately 111,163 digital displays in 19 cities in China, among which we have entered into exclusive advertising agency arrangements in 19 cities and direct investment arrangements in 11 cities in China. In addition, as of March 31, 2014, our mobile digital television advertising network and supplemental subway advertising platform covered 19 cities in China. We cannot assure you that we can maintain these relationships on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our local operating partners may unilaterally terminate our agreements with them before the expiration of these agreements if there are events of force majeure or if we have breached the agreements. For example, our agreement with our local operating partner in Beijing requires us to install digital television displays in new buses pursuant to the terms of the agreement between our local operating partner in Beijing and the local bus company in Beijing. If we fail to perform our contractual obligations, we will be in breach of our agreement and our local operating partner may unilaterally terminate our agreement. If we fail to maintain relationships with our local operating partners, advertisers may find advertising on our network unattractive and may not purchase advertising time from us, which would cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. We do not completely control the operations of our direct investment entities; any dispute with the local television stations could harm our business. We operate in 10(1) cities through direct investment entities formed with the local television stations. PRC law provides that the television stations or entities controlled by them must own no less than 51% of the equity interests in any mobile digital television operating company. We own a 49% equity interest in those direct investment entities, except the direct investment entity in Shenzhen in which we own a 25% equity interest and the direct investment entity in Wuxi in which we own a 14% equity interest. Seven out of ten of our direct investment agreements provide that we have the right to appoint the general manager of the direct investment entity, who will be in charge of the day-to- day operations of the direct investment entity. The right to appoint the general manager is subject to confirmation by the direct investment entity. Our local operating partners, the local television stations including Chengdu Television Station, Shenzhen Media Group, Jilin Television Station, Dalian Television Station, Henan Cable Television Network Group Co., Ltd., Hubei Broadcast and Television General Station, Wuxi Broadcast and Television Group, Suzhou Broadcast and Television General Station, Changzhou Television Station and Ningbo Broadcast and Television Group, control the broadcasting and are responsible for compliance matters. We cannot assure you that disputes will not arise between us and our local operating partners, and that any such disputes will be resolved in our favor. Further, our interests and the interests of our local operating partners may be different. In some cases, we may have to rely on court proceedings to resolve the disputes between us and our local operating partners. Any litigation will divert our resources and may result in a judgment against us. If any dispute between us and our local operating partners arises, our business operations could be harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our failure or our local operating partners’ failure to maintain existing relationships or develop new relationships with local bus companies or subway companies would harm our business and prospects. In most of the cities where we operate, our business relationships with local bus companies or other selected operations are secured and provided by our local operating partners or our direct investment entities. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2013, our operations on the supplemental subway advertising platform in Guangzhou, Beijing, Tianjin, Chongqing, Nanjing and Shenzhen are secured by our agreements with the subway companies in these six cities, respectively. However, we cannot assure you that we and our local operating partners can maintain these relationships with the local bus companies or subway companies on satisfactory terms, or at all, or that the local bus companies or subway companies will not terminate these relationships before their expiration. If we or our local operating partners fail to maintain these relationships, advertisers may find advertising on our network unattractive and may not purchase advertising time from us, which would cause our revenues to decline and our business and prospects to deteriorate. (1) We have entered into direct investment arrangements in 11 cities in China. Among 11 cities, we operate in 10 cities through direct investment entities formed with local television. In the remaining 1 city, we also operate through direct investment entity which was not form with the local television station. 12 Table of Contents A significant portion of the mobile digital television networks of our direct investment entities and the digital television broadcasting infrastructure of our local operating partners currently do not meet the newly adopted PRC national standards for mobile digital television operations. We will be required to spend significant capital and other resources to convert the digital television broadcasting infrastructure of our local operating partners to these national standards, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our local operating partners have adopted three different digital television technology standards in operating their networks. In addition, our direct investment entities have installed digital television receivers based on the technology standards our local operating partners have adopted. The National Standard of Frame Structure and Channel Code and Modulation of Digital Television Ground Broadcasting Transmission System, or the National Standard, was approved by the Standardization Administration of the PRC on August 18, 2006, and became effective on August 1, 2007. On March 27, 2006, SARFT promulgated the Notice Concerning Experimental Mobile Digital Television, or the March 2006 Notice, which required all of our local operating partners must adopt the National Standard for their mobile digital television operations. In addition, the SARFT has issued a notice to require some of our local operating partners and direct investment entities to complete the adoption of the National Standard by June 30, 2010. Our PRC counsel advises that while SARFT has promulgated the foregoing timeline for conversion to the National Standard, as of December 31, 2013, SARFT has not assessed any fines or penalties related to non-compliance with the National Standard. As of April 30, 2014, the mobile digital television network of our direct investment entities and the digital television broadcasting infrastructure of our local operating partners in 13 cities (Chengdu China Digital Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Wuxi Guangtong Digital Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Ningbo China Mobile Television Development Co., Ltd., Dalian Mobile Digital Television Co., Ltd., Hubei China Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Liaoning Beifang New Media Co., Ltd., Xiamen Radio and Television Digital Media Co., Ltd., Suzhou China Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Shenzhen Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Pearl River Mobile Multimedia Television Co., Ltd., Changsha Guangdian Digital Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Henan Cable China Mobile Television Company Limited and Changzhou China Mobile Television Company Limited) have been converted to the National Standard, but those in another four cities (Beijing Beiguang Media Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Beijing Beiguang Metro Media Co., Ltd., Nanjing Guangdian Mobile Television Development Co., Ltd., Shanxi Dazhong Mobile Television Co., Ltd., and Jilin Mobile Television Co., Ltd. have not yet completed the conversion and do not meet the requirements of the National Standard.) As of April 30, 2014, except for in Beijing, our local operating partners in the four cities have not begun the conversion process, and we and our local operating partners estimate that the conversion process will take no more than two years to complete once the conversion process begins. The actual amount of time required for the conversion process in any given city depends on a number of factors, including the size of the mobile digital television network in that city, the equipment currently used, the resources available for the conversion and the schedule for replacing the equipment. Our direct investment entities, Jilin Mobile Television Co., Ltd., and our local operating partners, Beijing Beiguang Media Mobile Television Co., Ltd, Beijing Beiguang Metro Media Co., Ltd., Nanjing Guangdian Mobile Television Development Co., Ltd., and Shanxi Dazhong Mobile Television Co., Ltd., will be required to spend significant capital and other resources, including purchasing new equipment, to convert their digital television broadcasting infrastructure to the National Standard. Three of our local operating partners, Beijing Beiguang Media Mobile Television Co., Ltd., and Beijing Beiguang Metro Media Co., Ltd., told us the conversion process had been started as of April 9, 2012. Under our exclusive advertising agency agreements, we are responsible for a portion of such expenditures in three of the four remaining cities. The total cost of converting the equipment to the National Standard in these three cities, namely Beijing, Nanjing and Changchun, is not expected to exceed RMB2.7 million. However, we and our local operating partners have not yet determined the allocation of the conversion expenses. Furthermore, the installation of new technology and equipment could cause disruptions to our programming, which in turn may adversely affect our reputation and business. If our local operating partners and direct investment entities do not complete the adoption of the National Standard in a timely manner or at all, or if such adoption requires substantial capital expenditures or other resources, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents In certain cities, we may be required to obtain approvals in order to continue including non-advertising content in our programs that are transmitted through closed circuit networks. If we are unable to continue to include non-advertising content in our programs, our business and prospects could be adversely affected. On December 6, 2007, the SARFT issued the Circular regarding Strengthening the Management of Public Audio-Video in Automobiles, Buildings and Other Public Areas, or the SARFT Circular. Under the SARFT Circular, the display of audio-video programs, such as television news, films and television shows, sports, technology and entertainment, through public audio-video systems located in outdoor public systems, including automobiles, airports and bus and train stations, must be approved by the SARFT. While the SARFT Circular is not applicable to audio-video transmitted through digital broadcast technology, it is applicable to audio-video transmitted through closed circuit networks. As a result, we may be required to obtain approvals for certain of our supplemental subway advertising operations. These supplemental subway advertising operations transmit programming through closed video networks rather than digital broadcast technology and include Beijing (Line 4 and Daxing Line), Tianjin, Shenzhen (Lines 2, 4 and 5, and Stations in Line 1), Nanjing (Line 2 and the southern extended line for Line 1) and Chongqing. We intend to obtain the required approvals for our non-advertising content for the programming in these operations. However, the relevant government authority in China has not promulgated any implementation rules on the procedure for applying for the requisite approvals. We cannot assure you that we will obtain such approvals as required by the SARFT Circular in a timely manner or at all. If we do not obtain the requisite approvals, we may be required to eliminate part or all of the non-advertising content from programming transmitted through closed circuit networks on our supplemental subway platforms. As a result, we may not be able to capture the attention of our target audience due to the lack of non-advertising content, which could make our advertising network on these supplemental subway platforms less attractive, and consequently have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. We operate in the advertising industry, which is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and advertising trends. Demand for advertising time on our network and supplemental subway advertising platform, and the resulting advertising spending by our clients, are particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions. For example, advertising expenditures typically decrease during periods of economic downturn. Advertisers may reduce the money they spend to advertise on our network and supplemental subway advertising platform for a number of reasons, including: · a general decline in economic conditions; · a decline in economic conditions in the particular cities where we conduct business; · a decision to shift advertising expenditures to other available advertising media; and · a decline in advertising spending in general. A decrease in demand for advertising media in general, and for our advertising services in particular, would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues, and have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If advertisers or the viewing public do not accept, or lose interest in, our mobile digital television advertising network, our revenues may be negatively affected and our business may not expand or be successful. The mobile digital television advertising market in China is relatively new and its potential is uncertain. We compete for advertising revenues with many forms of more established advertising media. Our success depends on the acceptance of our mobile digital television advertising network by advertisers and their continuing interest in this medium as part of their advertising strategies. Our success also depends on the viewing public’s continued receptiveness towards our mobile digital television advertising model. Advertisers may elect not to use our services if they believe that viewers are not receptive to our network or that our network does not provide sufficient value as an effective advertising medium. Likewise, if viewers find some element of our network, such as the audio feature of monitors, to be disruptive or intrusive, mass transportation companies may decide not to install our digital displays, and advertisers may view our network as a less attractive advertising medium compared to other alternatives. In these events, advertisers may reduce their spending on our network. If a substantial number of advertisers lose interest in advertising on our network for these or other reasons, we will be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to operate our business, and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents The process of developing a relationship with a local television station or its mobile digital television operating company, and then installing digital displays on the mass transportation systems can be time- consuming and requires us to commit a substantial amount of resources, from which we may be unable to recognize the anticipated benefits. Our success depends largely on our ability to establish relationships with local television stations and mass transportation companies. Before expanding into a new city, we identify cities that have been or are planning to launch digital mobile television operations, collect data and analyze the development status indicators such as economic status, consumer patterns, potential market size for advertising, development of mass transportation systems (including bus and subway) and mobile digital television networks, population and the percentage of the population that takes public transportation in those cities. We also evaluate the commercial potential and our estimated revenue. In some cases, we actively pursue cooperation activities with television stations or mobile television operators based on the market research, while in other cases we are contacted by those operators who have an interest in cooperating with us. The process of establishing these relationships can be lengthy as mobile digital television is a relatively new form of media and we often need to convince counterparties of the benefits of establishing a mobile digital television network on mass transportation systems. We may be required to commit substantial resources, including but not limited to the time and effort spent by our senior management (such as our chief executive officer and chief development officer) and staff from our media development department, research work and feasibility analyses and other expenses incurred during this process, such as travelling. Despite our best efforts, counterparties may ultimately decide not to establish a mobile digital television network or may choose to not work together with us. If these counterparties do not accept a mobile digital television network as an effective medium on mass transportation vehicles, we may not be able to grow our business or our revenues. Once a mass transportation company agrees to install our mobile digital television displays on their buses or other vehicles, we must invest substantial time and resources to install digital television displays before we receive any revenues from such efforts. Such investments typically include the purchase and the installation of digital television displays, or expenses relating to the acquisition of interests in the local direct investment entities. We may experience increased distribution and operations costs during and/or after deployment. We may also experience delays in revenue generation, if any, due to deployment delays or difficulties in selling advertising time to new or current advertisers to be aired on these buses and other mass transportation vehicles. We may be unable to generate sufficient revenues from advertising packages on these buses and other mass transportation vehicles to offset the related costs. Defects in the local mobile digital television networks, which we rely on to conduct our advertising operations, could result in a loss of advertisers and audience and unexpected expenses. Our advertising operations rely on the combination of the broadcasting network infrastructure of the local television stations and digital television displays. This combined infrastructure is complex and must meet stringent quality and reliability requirements. Due to the complexity of this infrastructure and the impracticability of testing all possible operating scenarios prior to implementation, certain errors or defects may not be detectable. The existence of errors or defects in this combined infrastructure may result in loss of, or delay in, acceptance of our advertising services by advertisers and public viewers. In addition, mass transportation companies could cancel their arrangements with our direct investment entities or our local operating partners if their respective networks experience sustained downtime. Any errors or defects in the local mobile digital television networks which we use to conduct our advertising operations could damage our reputation, result in revenue loss, divert development resources and increase service and support costs and warranty claims. 15 Table of Contents When our local mobile digital television advertising networks reach saturation in the cities where we operate, we may be unable to grow our revenue base or satisfy all of our advertisers’ needs, which could hamper our ability to generate higher levels of revenues over time. Air time allocated to programming and advertising on our mobile digital television network is generally provided in the agreements with our local operating partners. In cities where demand for time by advertisers is high, such as Beijing, Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Nanjing, our local mobile digital television networks may reach saturation, meaning we cannot sell additional advertising time without further increasing the proportion of advertisements to programs. If our local networks reach saturation in any particular city, we will be forced to request additional advertising time from our local operating partners or increase our advertising rates to increase our revenues. However, we cannot assure you that our local operating partners will grant our requests, and advertisers may be unwilling to accept rate increases or a decrease in the amount of programming, which in turn may decrease the attentiveness of the audience to their advertisements. If we are unable to increase the length of advertising time on our network or the rates for advertising time in saturated cities, we may be unable to generate higher levels of revenues over time. If we fail to attract advertisers to our network, we would be unable to maintain or increase our advertising prices, which would negatively affect our ability to grow revenues. The actual prices we can charge advertisers for time on our mobile digital television network and supplemental subway advertising platform depend on the size and quality of our networks and the demand by advertisers for advertising time. Advertisers choose to advertise on our advertising network in part based on the size of the network and the desirability of the cities where we operate. If we fail to maintain or increase the number of cities, diversify advertising channels in our network, or solidify our brand name and reputation as a quality provider of advertising services, advertisers may be unwilling to purchase time on our network or to pay the advertising fees we require to remain profitable. Any significant decrease in demand could cause us to lower the prices we charge for advertising time on our network and could negatively affect our ability to increase revenues in the future. We generally do not have exclusive or long-term agreements with our advertising clients and we may lose their engagement if they are not satisfied with our services or for other reasons. As is customary in the advertising industry in China, we generally do not have exclusive or long-term agreements with our advertising clients. A majority of our agreements with our advertising clients have a term of less than a year. As a result, we must rely on high-quality services, industry reputation, our network size and coverage and favorable pricing to attract and retain advertising clients. There is no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain our relationships with current and/or future clients. In particular, we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a small number of advertising clients. For example, our top ten advertising clients in the aggregate accounted for 44.7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013. These and our other advertising clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us if they are not satisfied with our services. We have lost client accounts in the past and may lose client accounts in the future. If a substantial number of our advertising clients choose not to continue to purchase advertising time from us, we would be unable to generate sufficient revenues and cash flows to operate our business, and our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against new and existing competitors, we may lose our market share, and our profitability may be adversely affected. We compete with other mobile digital television advertising companies and other new media advertising companies in China. We compete for advertising clients primarily on the basis of network size and coverage, location, price, range of services and brand name. We also face competition from other mobile digital television advertising network operators for access to the most desirable cities and mass transportation systems in China. Our major competitors include other companies that operate out-of-home advertising media networks such as Focus Media Holding Limited, AirMedia Group Inc., Towona Mobile Digital Co., Ltd. and Bus Online Media Co., Ltd. We also compete for overall advertising spending with other advertising media, such as television, mass transportation posters, billboards, newspapers, radio, magazines and the Internet. Some of our competitors operate digital television advertising networks installed on mass transportation systems primarily playing prerecorded content saved on compact flash cards or DVDs. 16 Table of Contents Many smaller mobile digital television companies operate in cities outside of our network pursuant to exclusive agreements, and we expect to encounter barriers-to-entry as we attempt to expand our network into these cities. For example, in Shanghai, Shanghai Oriental Pearl Mobile Television Inc. operates the largest mobile digital television-advertising network using broadcasting technology. As a result, we face barriers-to-entry to expand our network on the bus platform in Shanghai. In addition, we will face barriers-to-entry as we attempt to expand our out-of-home advertising network to different media platforms, such as in-building displays or large outdoor LED displays, because other companies have already signed exclusive placement agreements to secure the most desirable locations. Further, we may also face competition from new entrants into the mobile digital television-advertising sector. As is customary in the advertising industry, we generally do not have exclusive arrangements with our advertising clients and we do not have exclusive arrangements with the local operating partners in a number of cities in which we operate. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in gaining a greater market share or maintain our market share. In addition, since December 10, 2005, wholly foreign-owned advertising companies have been allowed to operate in China, which may expose us to increased competition from international advertising media companies attracted to opportunities in China. Increased competition could reduce our operating margins and profitability and result in a loss of market share. Some of our existing and potential competitors may have competitive advantages, such as significantly greater financial, marketing or other resources, and others may successfully mimic and adopt our business model. Moreover, increased competition will provide advertisers with a wider range of media and advertising service alternatives, which could lead to lower prices and decreased revenues, gross margins and profits. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against new or existing competitors. Several major cities in China have accounted, and will continue to account, for a substantial majority of our revenues. Our business and financial conditions are particularly subject to general economic conditions and the relationships with our local operating partners in these cities. A substantial majority of our revenues are currently generated from our operations in the four major cities in China: Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen. Our advertising revenue in Beijing, Guangzhou and Shenzhen in the aggregate accounted for 62.9% of our total advertising service revenue in 2009. Following the completion of our acquisition of Digital Media Group, we expanded our network to the subway platform in Shanghai and additional subway lines in Beijing and Shenzhen, and these four major cities in the aggregate accounted for 65.8%, 72.4% and 67.0% of our total advertising service revenue in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively, among which 15.0%, 14.2% and 9.7% were from Shanghai subway market. On September 1, 2012, we terminated our exclusive advertising agency agreements with our local operating partner in Shanghai. In 2013, we generated 60.8% of our total advertising revenue in Beijing, Guangzhou and Shenzhen through our exclusive advertising agency agreements. We expect to generate a substantial portion of our revenues from these three cities in the future. If any of these cities experiences an event negatively affecting its mobile digital television advertising industry, such as a serious economic downturn, a decline in the use of mass transportation systems, changes in government policy, a natural disaster or changes in advertising preferences, our mobile digital television network, our supplemental subway advertising platform and our ability to generate adequate cash flow would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to maintain our relationships with the local operating partners in these cities (i.e., Beijing Beiguang Media Mobile Television Co., Ltd., Beijing Beiguang Metro Media Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Pearl River Mobile Multimedia Television Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Metro Television Co., Ltd. and Shenzhen Metro Co., Ltd.), our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period in the future. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the seasonality of consumer spending and advertising trends in China or other factors. Factors that are likely to cause our operating results to fluctuate include: 17 Table of Contents · our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing advertising clients, attract new advertising clients and satisfy our clients’ demands; · the frequency of our clients’ advertisements on our network; · the price we charge for our advertising time or changes in our pricing strategies or the pricing strategies of our competitors; · effects of strategic alliances, potential acquisitions and other business combinations, and our ability to successfully and timely integrate them into our business; · technical difficulties, system downtime or interruptions; · changes in government regulations in relation to the advertising industry; and · economic and geopolitical conditions in China and elsewhere. Many of the factors discussed above are beyond our control, making our quarterly results difficult to predict, which could cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline below investor expectations. You should not rely on our operating results for prior periods as an indication of our future results. If our revenues for a particular quarter are lower than expected, we may be unable to reduce our operating expenses for that quarter by a corresponding amount, which would harm our operating results for that quarter relative to our operating results from other quarters. Failure to manage our growth could strain our management, operational and other resources, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We have been expanding our operations and plan to continue to expand rapidly in China. To meet the demand of advertisers for broader network coverage, we must continue to expand our network by installing more digital television displays on buses and other mass transportation systems and include additional media platforms, such as personal mobile devices and in-building displays. The continued growth of our business has resulted in, and will continue to result in, substantial demand on our management, operational and other resources. In particular, the management of our growth will require, among other things: · our ability to attract more clients, increase advertising sales and improve our sales support activities; · increased sales and sales support activities; · our ability to develop and improve our existing administrative and operational systems; · information technology system enhancement; · stringent cost controls and sufficient working capital; · strengthening of financial and management controls; · our ability to maintain our existing relationships with our local operating partners and to develop new relationships with local television stations or local mobile digital television companies; · our ability to secure a reliable supply of digital television displays for our network, which are manufactured by third-party suppliers according to our specifications; and · hiring and training of new personnel. 18 Table of Contents As we continue this effort, we may incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources. We may not be able to manage our current or future operations effectively and efficiently or compete effectively in new markets we enter. If we are not able to manage our growth successfully, our business and prospects would be materially and adversely affected. We depend substantially on the continuing efforts of our executive officers, and our business and prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is dependent on the continued services of key members of our management team. In particular, our future success is dependent upon the continued service of Limin Li, our co-founder, chairman and chief executive officer and our largest shareholder. We rely on his experience in our business operations, and in particular, his business vision, management skills and working relationships with our employees, our other major shareholders, many of our clients and our local operating partners. We have granted share options and/or restricted shares to executive officers to align the interest of such officers with ours. However, we face competition for personnel from other mobile digital television advertising companies or general advertising companies and other organizations. Such competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, as we continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue to attract and retain experienced management. We may be unable to attract or retain the personnel required to achieve our business objectives and failure to do so could severely disrupt our business and prospects. The process of hiring qualified personnel is also often lengthy. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We do not maintain key-person insurance for members of our management team. If we lose the services of any senior management, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and prospects. In addition, if any of our executive officers joins a competitor or forms a competing company, our marketing and sales efforts could be adversely affected and we may lose some of our customers. Although each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us that contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions, disputes may arise between our executive officers and us and we cannot assure you, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, that any of these provisions could be enforced in accordance with their terms. We may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel, particularly sales and marketing personnel, which could have material and adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain senior management, as well as sales, marketing, engineering and other key personnel. Because of intense competition for these employees, we may be unable to attract and retain personnel. If we are unable to retain our existing personnel, or attract, train, integrate or motivate additional qualified personnel, our growth may be restricted. The loss of any of these key employees could slow our programming, distribution and sales efforts or harm the perception of advertisers, venue providers and investors. Our senior executives may have to divert their attention to recruiting replacements for key personnel. In particular, we depend on our sales and marketing team to sell advertising time. We market our advertising services directly to advertisers, as well as to advertising agencies. As of December 31, 2013, we had 372 dedicated sales and marketing personnel to support our sales and marketing efforts. We depend on our sales staff to market our services to existing and potential clients and to cover a large number of clients in a wide variety of industries. We need to further increase the size of our sales and marketing staff as our business continues to grow. If we are unable to hire, retain, integrate or motivate our current or new marketing personnel, our sales and marketing efforts may be materially impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and could potentially result in judgments against us, which may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our advertising content, entertainment content or other aspects of our business do not or will not infringe upon patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Although we are not aware of any such claims, we may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely disrupt our business. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to adapt to evolving advertising trends and preferences of advertisers and viewers, we will not be able to compete effectively. The market for mobile digital television advertising requires us to continuously identify new advertising trends and the technology needs of advertisers and public viewers, which may require us to develop new features and enhancements for our network. The majority of our displays use LCD screens. We currently air programs and advertisements on our network through the television broadcasting network of our local operating partners or their affiliated television stations. In the future, subject to relevant PRC laws and regulations, we may use other technologies available in the market. We may be required to incur development and acquisition costs in order to keep pace with new technology needs but we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund and implement future technological innovations or to replace obsolete technology. Furthermore, we may fail to respond to these changing technology needs in a timely fashion. If we cannot succeed in developing and introducing new features on a timely and cost-effective basis, advertisers’ demand for our advertising time may decrease and we may not be able to compete effectively or attract advertising clients, which would have a material and adverse effect on our business and prospects. We may need additional capital and we may not be able to obtain it at acceptable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial position. We may need additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, acquisitions or other future developments. If these sources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: · investors’ perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative advertising media companies; · conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; · our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flow; · PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in advertising service companies in China; · PRC governmental regulation of the mobile digital television industry; · economic, political and other conditions in China; and · PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Without additional capital, we may not be able to: · upgrade our mobile digital television advertising network; 20 Table of Contents · further develop or enhance our services; · acquire necessary technologies or businesses; · expand our operations, including the reach of our network; · hire, train and retain employees; · market our programs, services and products; or · respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated capital requirements. Acquisition of other companies or assets of other companies is a part of our growth strategy, and these acquisitions may expose us to significant business and financial risks, including exposure to contingent acquisition consideration, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. One of our strategies is to pursue acquisition opportunities which are complementary to our business. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and secure suitable acquisition opportunities. Our ability to effectively consummate and integrate effectively any future acquisitions on terms that are favorable to us may be limited by a number of factors such as the number of attractive acquisition targets, internal demand on our resources and, to the extent necessary, our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms, if at all, for larger acquisitions. Moreover, if an acquisition candidate is identified, we may fail to enter into an acquisition or purchase agreement for such acquisition candidate on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The negotiation and completion of potential acquisitions, whether or not ultimately consummated, could also require significant diversion of our time and resources and may potentially disrupt our existing business. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate our acquisitions into our operations or that the expected synergies from future acquisitions will actually materialize. In addition, acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness, costs and contingent liabilities. For example, in connection with the acquisitions of the six advertising agency businesses completed by us in China in 2008, we are required to pay additional consideration if the acquired businesses meet specified performance targets in the years from 2008 through 2010. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investing Activities” for more details regarding the consideration calculated based on performance targets. In addition, on April 30, 2014, we issued the Notes to the Former DMG Shareholders to settle the unpaid consideration for our acquisition of Digital Media Group. We expect to redeem the Notes following a pre-determined repayment schedule in 6 years. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — B. Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investing Activities” for more details. Future acquisitions may also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: · the integration of new operations, services and personnel; · unforeseen or hidden liabilities; · the diversion of financial or other resources from our existing businesses and technologies; · our inability to generate sufficient revenues to recover costs and expenses of the acquisitions; and · the potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with our employees or customers. Any of the above risks could significantly disrupt our ability to manage our business and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could have a negative impact on our business. We believe our brand and trademarks are critical to our success. The success of our business depends in part upon our continued ability to use our brand and trademarks to increase brand awareness and to further develop our brand. The unauthorized reproduction of our trademarks could diminish the value of our brand and its market acceptance, competitive advantages or goodwill. Monitoring and preventing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult. The measures we take to protect our brand and trademarks may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use by third parties. Furthermore, application of laws governing intellectual property rights in China and abroad is uncertain and evolving, and could involve substantial risks to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our brand and trademarks, we may lose these rights and our business may suffer materially. Further, unauthorized use of our brand, trade names or trademarks could cause brand confusion among advertisers and harm our reputation. If our brand recognition decreases, we may lose advertisers and fail in our expansion strategies, and our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on computer software and hardware systems in managing our operations, the failure of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our computer software and hardware systems in supporting our network and managing and monitoring programs on the network. In addition, we rely on our computer hardware for the storage, delivery and transmission of the data on our network. Any system failure which interrupts the input, retrieval and transmission of data or increases the service time could disrupt our normal operation. Any failure in our computer software or hardware systems could decrease our revenues and harm our relationships with advertisers and consumers, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited insurance coverage for our operations in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited insurance products. We have determined that the risks of disruption or liability from our business, the loss or damage to our fixed assets, including our equipment and office furniture, the cost of insuring for these risks, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption, litigation or property insurance coverage for our operations in China except for insurance on some company owned vehicles. Any uninsured occurrence of loss or damage to fixed assets, or litigation or business disruption may result in the incurrence of substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on our financial statements, relevant market data and the composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for 2013, although there can be no assurance in this regard. If, however, we become a passive foreign investment company, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we become a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor holds our ADSs or common shares, unless the U.S. investor made a mark-to-market election, the U.S. investor would be subject to special tax rules with respect to any “excess distribution” received and any gain realized from a sale or other disposition, including a pledge, of ADSs or common shares. Distributions received in a taxable year that are greater than 125% of the average annual distributions received during the shorter of the three preceding taxable years or a U.S. investor’s holding period for the ADSs or common shares will be treated as excess distributions. Under these special tax rules: 22 Table of Contents · the excess distribution or gain will be allocated ratably over the U.S. investor’s holding period for the ADSs or common shares, · the amount allocated to the current taxable year, and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year in which we were a PFIC, will be treated as ordinary income, and · the amount allocated to each other year will be subject to tax at the highest tax rate in effect for that year and the interest charge generally applicable to underpayments of tax will be imposed on the resulting tax attributable to each such year. In addition, non-corporate U.S. investors will not be eligible for reduced rates of taxation on any dividends received from us if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50% or more of the value (determined on a quarterly average) of our assets (including cash) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash). The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the then prevailing market value of our ADSs, which is subject to change. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2014 or any future taxable year. See “Item 10. Additional Information — E. Taxation — Material United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” We may be, or may be joined as, a defendant in litigation brought against our clients or our local operating partners by third parties, governmental or regulatory authorities, consumers or competitors, which could result in judgments against us and materially disrupt our business. From time to time, we may be, or may be joined as, a defendant in litigation brought against our clients or our local operating partners by third parties, governmental or regulatory authorities, consumers or competitors. These actions could involve claims alleging, among other things, that: · advertising claims made with respect to our clients’ products or services are false, deceptive or misleading; · our clients’ products are defective or injurious and may be harmful to others; marketing, communications or advertising materials created for our clients infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties; or · our relationships with our local operating partners violate or interfere with the contractual relationships or rights of third parties. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government determines that the agreements establishing the structure for operating our China business do not comply with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties including being prohibited from continuing our operations in the PRC. The PRC government requires any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry to have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. We have not directly operated any advertising business outside of China and therefore, we currently do not qualify under PRC regulations to directly provide advertising services. In addition, the March 2006 Notice prohibits foreign investment in any mobile digital television operating company in China. We are a Cayman Islands corporation and a foreign legal person under Chinese laws. Accordingly, our subsidiary, China Digital Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., or CDTC, which is a wholly-owned foreign enterprise established by us on March 9, 2006, is currently ineligible to apply for the required licenses to directly provide advertising services in China. CDTC is an intermediate holding company that consolidates the operating results generated by our consolidated affiliated entities in a manner that complies with PRC rules and regulations. It is authorized to engage in businesses such as, but not limited to, technical development and technical consultancy services in connection with digital visual and audio equipment. Our advertising business is currently provided through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China, which hold the requisite licenses to provide advertising services in China. One of our consolidated affiliated entities, VisionChina Media Group Company Limited, or VisionChina Media Group, is currently owned by Limin Li and Yanqing Liang. We do not have any equity interest in VisionChina Media Group but we receive the economic benefits of it through various contractual arrangements. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions.” In January 2010, we completed our acquisition of Digital Media Group, which operated and continues to operate, its advertising business through its consolidated affiliated entity in China, Beijing Eastlong Advertising. Beijing Eastlong Advertising is currently owned by Qijun Men and Haifeng Wang. Digital Media Group does not have any equity interest in Beijing Eastlong Advertising, but receives the economic benefits and bear economic risks of it through various contractual arrangements. Our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries directly operate our advertising network, enter into direct investment and exclusive and non-exclusive advertising agency agreements, and sell advertising time to our clients. We have been and expect to continue to be dependent on our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries to operate our advertising business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel that the structure for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders) complies with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and does not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC counsel, and determine that our corporate structure and contractual arrangements violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. We have been further advised by our PRC counsel that if the PRC government determines that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our PRC advertising businesses do not comply with applicable restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry or the mobile digital televisions industry, we may be subject to severe penalties including, among other things, being prohibited from continuing our operations in the PRC. If we, our consolidated affiliated entities or any of their current or future subsidiaries, our direct investment entities, or our local operating partners are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the SAIC and SARFT, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses of such entities; · discontinuing or restricting the conduct of any transactions among our consolidated affiliated entities, our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities; 24 Table of Contents · imposing fines, confiscating the income of our consolidated affiliated entities or our income, or imposing other requirements with which we, our consolidated affiliated entities, our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated entities may not be able to comply; · shutting down the network of our consolidated affiliated entities; · requiring us or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations; or The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China, and their equity holders, which may not be as effective in providing us with operational control or enabling us to derive economic benefits as through ownership of controlling equity interest. We have in the past relied, and will continue in the future to rely, on contractual arrangements with VisionChina Media Group, one of our consolidated affiliated entities in China, and its shareholders to operate our advertising business. In January 2010, we completed our acquisition of Digital Media Group, which operated, and will continue to operate, its advertising business through contractual arrangements with Beijing Eastlong Advertising and its equity holders. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as ownership of controlling equity interest would be in providing us with control over, or enabling us to derive economic benefits from the operations of, our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries. If we had direct ownership of our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to (i) effect changes in the board of directors of those entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level, and (ii) derive economic benefits from the operations of our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries by causing our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries or any of their respective equity holders fails to perform their, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. For example, if equity holders of VisionChina Media Group were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in VisionChina Media Group to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. We expect to continue to depend upon our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries and their equity holders to operate our advertising business in China due to the PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investments in our industry. If (i) the applicable PRC authorities invalidate these contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations, (ii) our consolidated affiliated entities or their subsidiaries terminate these contractual arrangements or (iii) our consolidated affiliated entities or their subsidiaries fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we would not be able to continue our business operations in China or to derive economic benefits from operations of our consolidated affiliated entities or their subsidiaries, and the value of your ADSs would substantially decrease. Pursuant to the terms of each of (i) the technology and management services agreement entered into on February 15, 2007 between CDTC and VisionChina Media Group, (ii) the domain name license agreement entered into on February 15, 2007 between CDTC and VisionChina Media Group, (iii) the cooperation agreement entered into on February 22, 2005 between Beijing Eastlong Technology and Beijing Eastlong Advertising, (iv) the supplemental agreement entered into on April 2, 2014 among CDTC, Limin Li, Yanqing Liang and VisionChina Media Group and (v) each of the respective loan agreements, equity pledge agreement and option agreements to which CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, respectively, is party, if CDTC or Beijing Eastlong Technology, as applicable, breaches its representations or warranties or any of the terms of the agreement, then the nondefaulting party, i.e., the relevant consolidated affiliated entity or the shareholders of the relevant consolidated affiliated entity, as applicable, would have the right to terminate the agreement. VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising, however, do not have any substantive kick-out rights available to them under any of the contractual arrangements. Further, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration, we would not be able to continue our business operations unless the then current PRC law allows us to directly operate advertising businesses in China. 25 Table of Contents In addition, through an Equity Pledge Agreement, our consolidated entities encumber all or part of their assets with liens. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions —Agreements that Provide Us Effective Control over VisionChina Media Group, Beijing Eastlong Advertising and Their Respective Subsidiaries.” If our consolidated affiliated entities or all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could severely disrupt our business and cause grave damaging effects on our financial condition and results of operations. If one of our consolidated affiliated entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its equity holders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of the assets of that consolidated affiliated entity, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business or derive economic benefits from that consolidated affiliated entity and its subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of your ADSs. The contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exercise effective control over our operating entities, and we may be precluded from operating our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If VisionChina Media Group or Beijing Eastlong Advertising fails to honor its obligations under the contractual arrangements with us, our advertising business may be severely and adversely affected. Chinese laws and regulations prohibit or restrict foreign ownership of media content and advertising business. To comply with these foreign ownership restrictions, we invest in ventures with local television stations and provide advertising services on our out-of-home digital television networks in the PRC through VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising, both PRC legal entities. VisionChina Media Group was established by our co-founders, and Beijing Eastlong Advertising was established by Haifeng Wang and Qijun Men. The paid-in capital of VisionChina Media Group was funded by us or CDTC through a loan extended to the co-founders. CDTC has entered into certain exclusive agreements with VisionChina Media Group, which obligate us to absorb a majority of the risk of loss from VisionChina Media Group’s activities and entitle us to receive a majority of its residual returns. In addition, we, through CDTC, has entered into certain agreements with the two individuals, including a loan agreement for the paid-in capital of VisionChina Media Group described above, an option agreement to acquire the shareholding in VisionChina Media Group when permitted by the PRC laws, and a share pledge agreement for the shares in VisionChina Media Group held by the co-founders. As provided by these agreements, all raised disputes are subject to PRC court proceedings. Similarly, the paid-in capital of Beijing Eastlong Advertising was funded by Beijing Eastlong Technology, which became our wholly owned subsidiary subsequent to our acquisition of Digital Media Group in 2010, through loans extended to its equity holders. Beijing Eastlong Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Beijing Eastlong Technology has entered into certain exclusive agreements with Beijing Eastlong Advertising, which obligate us to absorb a majority of the risk of loss from Beijing Eastlong Advertising’s activities and entitle us to receive a majority of its residual returns. In addition, Beijing Eastlong Technology has entered into certain agreements with the two individual equity holders, including a loan agreement for the paid-in capital of Beijing Eastlong Advertising described above and an option agreement to acquire the equity interest in Beijing Eastlong Advertising when permitted by the PRC laws and a share pledge agreement for the shares in Beijing Eastlong Advertising held by Qijun Men and Haifeng Wang. As provided by these agreements, all raised disputes are subject to PRC court proceedings. The major difference between binding arbitration and court proceedings in the PRC is that PRC arbitration judgments are binding, enforceable and may not be appealed, whereas the PRC court judgments are subject to appeal to the People’s Court of Appeal. According to the Civil Procedure Laws of the PRC, each party to a dispute in its first trial is entitled to appeal within the statutory time limit, and the court shall hear all appeals once the case is filed in the second instance. Before the appeal is heard, the people’s court of the first trial shall serve copies of the appeal petition on the respondent within five days of receiving an appeal petition, and the respondent shall submit its defense in writing within 15 days of receiving such copies of the appeal petition. Failure by the respondent to submit a defense shall not prevent the case from being tried by the people’s court. In trying an appealed case against a judgment, the people’s court shall make a final judgment within three months of the case being filed in the second instance; in trying an appealed case against an order, the people’s court shall make a final order within 30 days of the case being filed in the second instance. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions” for a detailed description of these contractual arrangements. 26 Table of Contents Based on these contractual arrangements, we believe that VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising should be each considered as a variable interest entity, or VIE, under FASB ASC 810, Consolidation, because the equity investors in VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest and we, through CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, are the primary beneficiary of VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising. We and CDTC hold all the variable interests of VisionChina Media Group, and we and CDTC have been determined to be the most closely associated with VisionChina Media Group. We and Beijing Eastlong Technology hold all the variable interests of Beijing Eastlong Advertising, and we and Beijing Eastlong Technology have been determined to be the most closely associated with Beijing Eastlong Advertising. Therefore, we are the primary beneficiary of both VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising. Accordingly, we consolidate VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising. These contractual arrangements enable us to exercise effective control over VisionChina Media Group and its subsidiaries and receive substantially all of the economic benefits of VisionChina Media Group and its subsidiaries for a remaining period of 18 years. If VisionChina Media Group fails to comply with its obligation under the foregoing contractual arrangement, such non-performance may have adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the contractual arrangements enable us to exercise effective control over Beijing Eastlong Advertising and its subsidiaries and receive substantially all of the economic benefits of Beijing Eastlong Advertising and its subsidiaries for a remaining period of 1.2 years. If Beijing Eastlong Advertising fails to comply with its obligation under the foregoing contractual arrangement, such non-performance may have adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us. The beneficial owners of VisionChina Media Group are also the founders of our company and own a substantial portion of our common shares. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as beneficial owners of both VisionChina Media Group and our company may arise. The shareholders of Beijing Eastlong Advertising were the founders of Digital Media Group. Their interests may diverge from those of our company, particularly after the completion of our acquisition of Digital Media Group in January 2010. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause the applicable consolidated affiliated entity to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements, which will have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively control that consolidated entity and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the equity holders of our consolidated affiliated entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain and which could be disruptive to our business. Our ongoing litigation with the Former DMG Shareholders may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Vision Best Limited, filed a summons with notice in the New York Court on December 27, 2010 against the Former DMG Shareholders. The summons with notice alleged that the Former DMG Shareholders (i) engaged in an unlawful scheme to induce us, through false, deceptive, and misleading statements concerning Digital Media Group’s financial condition and performance, to pay a grossly inflated price to purchase Digital Media Group in 2010, and (ii) received, or are scheduled to receive, ill-gotten gains from this unlawful scheme. The summons with notice further alleged that we are owed indemnification from an escrow fund, established at the time of the purchase, as a result of breaches of representations and warranties contained in the merger agreement pursuant to which we acquired Digital Media Group, or the Merger Agreement. The claims summarized in the summons with notice were set forth in a more detailed complaint we filed on February 2, 2011. 27 Table of Contents On February 25, 2011, the Former DMG Shareholders filed a countersuit in the New York Court against us. The complaint in that lawsuit alleges that we breached certain agreements related to the Digital Media Group acquisition by (i) declining to make certain installment payments that the Former DMG Shareholders claim they were entitled to receive and (ii) declining to take steps to facilitate the transfer of shares of our stock that the Former DMG Shareholders claim to be entitled to receive in connection with the acquisition of Digital Media Group. The Former DMG Shareholders also seek specific enforcement of the contracts at issue, compensatory damages in an amount to be determined at trial, and permanent and preliminary injunctive relief compelling us to comply with the parties’ agreement. We denied the material allegations of the complaint by the Former DMG Shareholders and asserted a counterclaim for breach of contract arising from the destruction of Digital Media Group’s electronic data prior to delivery to us. Also on February 25, 2011 the Former DMG Shareholders filed motions against us for various relief. They sought to dismiss most of the claims in our complaint as well as our counterclaim based on destruction of Digital Media Group’s electronic data. They also sought (i) an order of attachment against us in the amount of $30.0 million plus interest, on account of a post-closing payment of that amount which the Former DMG Shareholders alleged to be due, and (ii) an order directing us to transfer assets into the United States to secure a prospective judgment. The Former DMG Shareholders also filed a motion for a preliminary injunction to compel us to remove the restrictive legend on the ordinary shares received by the Former DMG Shareholders in connection with the acquisition of Digital Media Group, and to provide consents or authorizations to convert those shares into freely tradable American Depository Shares. On November 3, 2011 the New York Court decided the pending motions in the above lawsuits. It granted the motion to dismiss our fraud, unjust enrichment and declaratory judgment claims, as well as our breach of contract claim based on the destruction of Digital Media Group’s electronic data. The New York Court denied the Former DMG Shareholders’ motion to dismiss our indemnification claim for not less than US$2,785,633 but granted their motion to attach our assets in the amount of US$30.0 million plus interest, as security in the event the Former DMG Shareholders were successful in their monetary claims against us. The ruling also required the Former DMG Shareholders to file a US$500,000 undertaking in the event that it is ultimately determined that they were not entitled to the attachment. Finally, the New York Court denied the Former DMG Shareholders’ request to compel us to release the restrictions on the stock certificates they received, noting that any injury they may have suffered as a result of the alleged failure to release those restrictions would be compensable in monetary damages. On November 11, 2011 we filed an appeal from the New York Court’s orders. On November 21, 2011 the Former DMG Shareholders filed a motion for partial summary judgment in the New York Court, seeking a judgment against us of US$60.0 million plus interest for failure to make US$60.0 million in post-closing payments claimed to be due for the acquisition of Digital Media Group. They also filed a motion to confirm the order of attachment previously entered in the amount of US$30.0 million plus interest. No decision has been reached by the New York Court on these pending motions as of April 26, 2012. On August 13, 2012, the New York State Supreme Court entered an order, or the August 13 Order, directing us and Vision Best Limited, on or before August 21, 2012 to (a) transfer US$60.0 million in assets readily convertible into U.S. currency into New York State, to be held in the custody of the New York City Sheriff’s Office, (b) deposit US$60.0 million into an escrow account controlled by the Sheriff, or (c) make other arrangements satisfactory to the Former DMG Shareholders in the litigation for security with respect to the final judgment in that amount. We and Vision Best Limited took prompt steps to comply with the August 13 Order and have arranged for the delivery to the Sheriff of more than US$3.2 million in cash denominated in or convertible to U.S. dollars that were held by or for us or our subsidiaries outside the PRC. With respect to funds held within the PRC in Renminbi, any transfer to the Sheriff in New York requires approval of the relevant authority of the PRC government, the SAFE. Accordingly, on August 20, 2012, we applied to the SAFE for such approval, for the transfer of the balance required under the August 13 Order (an amount equivalent to approximately US$56.8 million). However, the SAFE denied the application on August 20,2012. 28 Table of Contents At same time as taking steps to comply with the August 13 Order to the extent possible, we have also appealed the August 13 Order. We sought a stay of enforcement of the August 13 Order, but that request was denied, first by a single judge of the appellate court on August 17, 2012 and then by a full panel of that court on October 2, 2012. We have perfected the appeal from the August 13 Order. On October 21, 2012, the Former DMG Shareholders filed a contempt motion in the New York Court against us and Vision Best for failure to transfer US$60.0 million into New York State by August 21, 2012 as directed in the August 13 Order. On January 7, 2013, the New York Court issued an order of civil contempt against us that we had failed to comply fully with an August 13, 2012 turnover order requiring us to post security in connection with prejudgment orders of attachment totaling US$60 million. The turnover order required us to pay that amount to the New York City Sheriff or enter into an escrow of the funds in the PRC or alternative security arrangement acceptable to plaintiffs. Although we arranged to transfer to the Sheriff most of the assets of its subsidiaries located outside the PRC (almost US$4.5 million), we had advised the judge that it was not able to transfer additional assets held by its PRC subsidiary because of restrictions of the PRC’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE. On February 19, 2013 the New York State Supreme Court entered a modified order, or the February 19 Order, adding to the terms of the August 13 Order the alternative provision that we may deposit in escrow, with the Jun He Law Offices as escrow agent, an amount of Chinese currency equivalent to US$60.0 million less the amount currently on deposit of approximately US$4.5 million with the New York City Sheriff’s Office, to be held in escrow until a final judgment in this action or a settlement between the parties resolving the action. However, the Jun He Law Offices have informed the New York Court that they were not willing to serve as escrow agent and we had been advised that any escrow of funds to be held in China pursuant to an agreement that contemplates the possibility of ultimate transfer of Chinese currency outside of China requires approval of SAFE. The contempt sanction was a fine of US$250 plus payment of the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees incurred on the contempt application. The plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fee was estimated to be US$282,000 and such amount is fully accrued as of December 31, 2012 and included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities (however, as explained below, the amount actually awarded was US$185,892.31 in plaintiff’s attorney’s fee in addition to a US$250 fine, a total of US$186,142.31). We filed a notice of appeal from that Contempt Order on March 15, 2013. On May 16, 2013, the New York Court ordered us to pay Former Digital Media Group Shareholders US$250 fine plus plaintiffs’ costs and reasonable attorneys’ fees in the amount of US$185,892.31 within fifteen days. On June 11, 2013, the Appellate Division, First Department of the Supreme Court of the State of New York entered a Decision and Order, or the Appellate Division Ruling, determining appeals and cross-appeals from rulings by the New York Court. The Appellate Division Ruling (a) affirmed the New York Court’s order of November 3, 2011 granting the motions of the Former DMG Shareholders to dismiss our claims and counter-claims for fraud, unjust enrichment and declaratory judgment, (b) reversed that part of the New York Court’s order of June 15, 2012 that denied the Former DMG Shareholders’ motion for partial summary judgment on the defense asserted by us to the Former DMG Shareholders’ claims for breach of contract, including the defense based on allegations of intentional destruction of certain electronic data that was to be conveyed as part of the sale of the assets of DMG, and (c) affirmed the New York Court’s denial of the Former DMG Shareholders’ motion to dismiss the breach of contract and indemnity claim asserted by us, seeking an amount not less than US$2,785,633, based on alleged inaccuracies in the representations and warranties within the Merger Agreement. With respect to the orders entered by the New York Court regarding the attachment of our assets, the Appellate Division Ruling (d) reversed the New York Court’s order entered on November 4, 2011, granting the motion by the Former DMG Shareholders for pre-judgment attachment of our assets, (e) reversed the New York Court’s order entered on June 15, 2012, granting the motion by the Former DMG Shareholders to confirm the two ex parte orders of attachment they previously obtained in the aggregate amount of $60 million, or the Attachment Orders, and (f) reversed the New York Court’s order entered on August 13, 2012, granting the motion of the Former DMG Shareholders’ to compel us to transfer $60 million into New York pursuant to the Attachment Orders. Neither we nor the Former DMG Shareholders sought leave to appeal the Appellate Division Ruling, which therefore became final. On July 15, 2013, the New York Court entered an order requested by the Former DMG Shareholders granting summary judgment on two of their causes of action in the amount of $60 million plus interest and certain costs and permitting execution on such judgment. On July 26, 2013, the Clerk of the New York Court entered judgment in favor of the Former DMG Shareholders pursuant to the July 15, 2013 order, directing that they shall recover from us the sum of $71,800,047 and have execution thereof, or the New York Judgment. On July 29, 2013, proceedings were begun in the Cayman Islands against us for the enforcement of the New York Judgment entered on July 26, 2013, or the Cayman Islands Proceedings. and we have received a writ of summons. On August 22, 2013, Former Digital Media Group Shareholders sought an order from the New York Court directing the Sheriff to pay to them the amount awarded on the contempt motion. On September 10, 2013, the New York Court entered an order directing the Sheriff to pay Former Digital Media Group Shareholders the amount awarded on their contempt motion, and on September 25, 2013, the Sheriff disbursed funds to Former Digital Media Group Shareholders in the amount of $186,142. On October 21, 2013, we appeared before the New York Court and put a stipulation on the record, approved by the Court, agreeing to a continuation of the temporary stay entered by the New York Court on July 29, 2013, prohibiting the Sheriff from disbursing any additional funds held by him in escrow pending an application by Former Digital Media Group Shareholders for such disbursement upon notice to us. At that same court appearance, we voluntarily withdrew without prejudice its application to enforce the Appellate Division Ruling and to compel the return of remaining funds held by the Sheriff. On February 14, 2014, we stipulated to the withdrawal of all appeals in that action pending before the Appellate Division. The stipulation was transmitted to the New York Court on February 19, 2014. As of December 31, 2013, the Sheriff held $4.5 million, pursuant to the August 13 Order, in an interest-bearing account. The amount includes the principal sum transferred by us and accrued interest. Such amount is included in the restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2013. As a result of the above litigation, penalty interest on the overdue payable of $3,375,000, $5,993,145 and $2,149,903 are recognized during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, consideration payable of $75,800,047 (including $11,800,047 accrued penalty interest on the overdue consideration payable) is recorded by us and it is the management’s best estimate of the consideration required to settle the litigation with the Former DMG Shareholders. On April 30, 2014, we entered into the Settlement Arrangement with the Former DMG Shareholders to settle this litigation. 29 Table of Contents The audit report included in this annual report was prepared by auditors that are not inspected by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, our investors are deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the Peoples’ Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Proceedings instituted by the SEC against five Mainland China -based accounting firms, including the affiliate of our independent registered public accounting firm, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In late 2012, the SEC commenced administrative proceedings under Rule 102(e) of its Rules of Practice and also under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 against the Mainland Chinese affiliates of the ‘‘big four’’ accounting firms, (including the Mainland affiliate of our auditors). and also against Dahua (the former BDO affiliate in China). The Rule 102(e) proceedings initiated by the SEC relate to these firms’ inability to produce documents, including audit work papers, in response to the request of the SEC pursuant to Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as the auditors located in Mainland China are not in a position lawfully to produce documents directly to the SEC because of restrictions under PRC law and specific directives issued by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. The issues raised by the proceedings affect equally all audit firms based in Mainland China and all China-based businesses with securities listed in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative judge reached an Initial Decision that the “big four” accounting firms in Mainland China should be barred from practicing before the Commission for six months. Although, the principal auditor of our financial statements is Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in Hong Kong which is not subject to the proceedings or the Initial Decision, our auditors use their Mainland affiliate to assist in the auditing of the Mainland China components of our operations. However, it is currently impossible to determine the ultimate outcome of this matter as the accounting firms have filed a petition for review of the Initial Decision and pending that review the effect of the Initial Decision is suspended. The SEC Commissioners will review the Initial Decision and determine whether there has been any violation and, if so, the appropriate remedy to be placed on those audit firms. Once such an order was made, the accounting firms would have a further right to appeal to the US Federal courts, and the effect of the order might be further stayed pending the outcome of that appeal. 30 Table of Contents Depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major Mainland China operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and may result in a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for tax exemption, or both, which could substantially increase our taxes owed and thereby reduce our net income. Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. Neither we nor our PRC counsel are able to determine whether any of these transactions will be regarded by the PRC tax authorities as arm’s length transactions because, based on our knowledge, the PRC tax authorities have not issued a ruling or interpretation in respect of the type of transaction structure similar to ours. The relevant tax authorities may determine that our contractual relationships with our consolidated affiliate entities and their equity holders were not entered into on an arm’s length basis. If any of the transactions between one of our wholly owned subsidiaries in China and a consolidated affiliated entity, and its equity holders, including our contractual relationships with that consolidated affiliated entity, are determined not to have been entered into on an arm’s length basis, or are found to result in an impermissible reduction in taxes under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities may adjust the profits and losses of that consolidated affiliated entity and assess more taxes on it. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment surcharges and other penalties to that consolidated affiliated entity for underpaid taxes. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected if the tax liabilities of a consolidated affiliated entity increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment surcharges or other penalties. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If one of our PRC operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements our PRC operating subsidiaries currently have in place with our consolidated affiliated entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payments of dividends by our PRC operating subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, the statutory general reserve fund requires annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends until the cumulative fund reaches 50% of the registered capital. The statutory general reserve fund is used to make up for losses and not allowed to be distributed as cash dividends. To the extent it has not complied with these requirements, a company shall be ordered to the statutory reserve fund and may be fined a maximum to RMB 200,000 penalty and shareholders must return the distributed profits to company. As a result of these PRC laws, rules and regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Historically, our PRC wholly owned subsidiaries, CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, did not pay dividends to us. Our management believes that it will be able to pay dividends to us from CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, but our management does not have any present plan for receiving dividends from our PRC operating subsidiaries including CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology. Currently we plan to use all our retained profits in our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliates, including CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, to reinvest for our future business expansion. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the degree of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; · access to financing; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in common law systems, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities established in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult than in more developed legal systems to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management’s attention. 32 Table of Contents You may experience difficulties effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws, against us, our management or the experts named in this annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers, such as our chief executive officer, Limin Li, our chief operating officer, Wei Liu, our chief development officer, Haijun Liu, and our chief financial officer, Yan Wang, reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon us or our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of legal judgments. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiary and affiliates. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities in China are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: · loans by us to foreign invested enterprises, such as our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the SAFE, or its local counterparts; and · loans by us to domestic PRC enterprises, such as our consolidated affiliated entities, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. We may also decide to finance our PRC operating subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOC, or its local counterpart. Because our PRC operating subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are domestic PRC enterprises, we are not likely to finance their activities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory issues relating to foreign investment in domestic PRC enterprises, as well as licensing and other regulatory issues. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our consolidated affiliated entities or any of their subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected, which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to expand our business. 33 Table of Contents PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. The SAFE notice further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the offshore special purpose company, including an initial public offering by such company. Limin Li and Yanqing Liang, our shareholders who are PRC citizens, have registered with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice and are required to amend their registration to reflect recent developments of our company and our PRC subsidiary. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely fashion pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiary, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiary to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the “Measure for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange,” and on January 5, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the implementation rules on those measures. Pursuant to these regulations, PRC citizens who have been granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through a qualified PRC agent which may be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company must be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchanged into Renminbi. Our PRC citizen employees, who have been granted share options, or PRC optionees, are subject to these regulations. According to the Regulations on the Foreign Exchange System of the PRC, we or our PRC optionees may be assessed fines of up to RMB300,000 and legal or administrative sanctions for failure to comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange register administration. Our PRC counsel has advised that failure to comply with SAFE registration requirements by some of our PRC optionees would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. If any of our PRC affiliates becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy those assets, which could reduce the size of our advertising network and materially and adversely affect our business, ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. To comply with PRC laws, rules and regulations relating to foreign ownership restrictions in the advertising business, we currently conduct our operations in China through contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their equity holders. As part of these arrangements, VisionChina Media Group, Beijing Eastlong Advertising and their subsidiaries hold some of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. If any of these entities becomes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our consolidated affiliated entities or any of their subsidiaries undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, their shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of their assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. 34 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our future cash requirements will be primarily satisfied by dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. In addition, foreign currencies received under current account items can be retained or sold to financial institutions engaged in the foreign exchange settlement or sales business by complying with relevant regulations. However, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Similarly, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required if foreign currencies received in respect of capital account items is to be retained or sold to financial institutions engaged in the foreign exchange settlement or sales business. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuations in exchange rates of the Renminbi could materially affect our reported results of operations. The exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar, Euro and other foreign currencies are affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we rely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiary, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would have a positive or negative effect on our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition and results of operations. Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be aggravated by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and the increase in the PRC enterprise income tax could decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliates are incorporated in the PRC and are governed by applicable PRC income tax laws and regulations. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, became effective on January 1, 2008. The implementation regulations under the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council became effective January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, the PRC has adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, that received preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities prior to January 1, 2008. Enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the EIT Law. 35 Table of Contents Before the EIT Law and its implementation regulations became effective on January 1, 2008, as an enterprise located in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zones in the PRC, CDTC and VisionChina Media Group were allowed to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%, and pursuant to the requirement of the EIT Law, continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years from 2008 to 2012. VisionChina Media Group’s sales branches located in various cities in the PRC are subject to enterprise income tax at standard rate of 25% under the EIT Law. Furthermore, in November 2008, VisionChina Media Group was recognized as “new and high technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” and is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% for 2009 and 2010. In October 2011, VisionChina Media Group obtained the approval from the government authorities to be recognized as a state-encouraged high-new technology enterprise in 2011, 2012 and 2013, and is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% in these three years, subject to tax authority approval at the end of each year. In accordance with a circular issued in December 2010, Beijing Eastlong Technology has been recognized as a state-encouraged high-new technology enterprise starting from 2010, and the status is valid for a period of three years. As such the EIT rate for Beijing Eastlong Technology is 15% in each of the years of 2010, 2011 and 2012, and 25% in 2013, respectively. Furthermore, one of our operating consolidated affiliated entities in Luzhou in Sichuan province was recognized as a “local government encouraged company” and is entitled to exemption from the enterprise income tax for 2008 and 2009 and reduced tax rate of 7.5%, 7.5%, 7.5% and 15% in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. Notwithstanding the standard statutory tax rate of 25%, in 2011, under the direction of the relevant in-charge tax authority, one of our operating consolidated affiliated entities, Jiangxi Huashi Media Advertising Co., Ltd., or Jiangxi Huashi, applied a deemed-profit-rate method for its annual tax filings in 2011. Pursuant to the deemed-profit-rate method, taxable income for Jiangxi Huashi was deemed at 16% of revenues. An additional amount of US$0.1 million would otherwise have been payable if deemed-profit-rate method is not allowed for the year ended December 31, 2013. However, we cannot assure you that our PRC operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities will continue to receive preferential tax treatments in the future. Any further legislative changes to the tax laws and or regulations could in future years by applicable authorities and become subject our PRC operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities to increased income tax rates. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities in the PRC would decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council of the PRC has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiary in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiary in China, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. In addition, we conduct advertising business through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities, which are currently owned by individuals. We must pay taxes at the individual income tax of 20% on behalf of our employees who hold interests in a consolidated affiliated entity when that consolidated affiliated entity distributes dividends in the future. Furthermore, there may be potential business taxes arising from the contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities. If we cannot retrieve the undistributed earnings in our consolidated affiliated entities in a tax free manner, we may need to pay additional taxes upon distribution of such undistributed earnings. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. 36 Table of Contents Also, on April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Tax, or the SAT, issued a Tax Circular, Guoshuifa [2009] No. 82, Notice on the Recognition of Overseas Incorporated Domestically Controlled Enterprises as PRC Resident Enterprises Based on the Place of Effective Management Criteria, or Circular 82, with retrospective effect from 1 January 2008. According to Circular 82, any enterprise established under the law of a country or region other than the PRC but whose main investor is a PRC enterprise or Group shall be recognized as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes if all the following criteria are met: (i) the senior executives responsible for its daily production or business operations and the place where such responsibilities are carried out are mainly located in China; (ii) decisions about its finances (such as borrowing, lending, financing and managing financial risk) and human resources (such as staff recruitment, termination, and remuneration policies) are made or approved by organizations or individuals located in China; (iii) its major properties, accounting books and records, company seal, board minutes and resolutions, shareholders’ meeting minutes, etc. are kept in China; and (iv) 50% or more of its voting directors or its senior executives habitually reside in China. The principle of “substance over form” applies when determining the place of effective management. Although Circular 82 was issued to regulate the PRC tax resident judgment of companies established overseas and controlled by PRC companies, which is not applicable in our case, the criteria in Circular 82 should be used as a reference to the SAT’s view on this issue. Our board of directors holds regular meetings and makes most of the significant operational, investment, financing and human resources decisions outside of the PRC. In addition, our senior management regularly spends time outside of the PRC developing and managing investor relations. As such, we believe that the de facto management body of us is located outside of the PRC, and, accordingly, we believe the risk of being recognized as a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law is low. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, our legal entities organized outside of the PRC incurred losses. Therefore, even if our legal entities organized outside of the PRC are treated as PRC residents for purpose of the new EIT law, our management believes there was no material impact on our results of operations. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or common shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our common shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in common shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics, terrorist attacks or other events in China that may affect usage of public transportation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, the outbreak of health epidemics, terrorist attacks or other events in China. For example, in early 2008, parts of China suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in China suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. In addition, in the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. In July 2008, explosive devices were detonated on several buses in Kunming, Yunnan Province of China, which resulted in disruptions to public transportation systems in Kunming and casualties. Any future natural disasters, health epidemics, terrorist attacks or other events in the PRC could cause a reduction in usage of, or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law may significantly increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The PRC National People’s Congress enacted the Labor Contract Law which was promulgated on June 29, 2007 and became effective on January 1, 2008, and the amendment to the Labor Contract Law which was promulgated on 28 December, 2012 and became effective on July 1, 2013, or the Labor Contract Law Amendment. The Labor Contract Law and the Labor Contract Law Amendment formalize workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions and provides for specific standards and procedure for the termination of an employment contract. In addition, the Labor Contract Law and the Labor Contract Law Amendment require the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including in cases of the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. As there has been little guidance as to how the Labor Contract Law and the Labor Contract Law Amendment will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains substantial uncertainty as to its potential impact on our business and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and the Labor Contract Law Amendment may significantly increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and the Labor Contract Law Amendment may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile which could result in a loss to you. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · regulatory developments in China affecting us, our industry, our corporate structure or our advertisers; · announcements of competitive developments; · announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies with comparable businesses; · addition or departure of our executive officers; · release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares or ADSs; and · sales or perceived sales of additional common shares or ADSs. · conversion of convertible notes held by the Former DMG Shareholders. 38 Table of Contents In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2013, we had 101,560,744 common shares outstanding, including 68,074,225 common shares represented by 3,403,711 ADSs. Sales of our common shares or ADSs held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder, or the availability of these securities for future sale, may have a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs. In addition, certain of our shareholders or their transferees and assignees have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage acquisition of our company by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our common shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common shares may be adversely affected. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Furthermore, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a Delaware company. 39 Table of Contents Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents of the United States and a substantial portion of whose assets are located outside of the United States. Moreover, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise their rights. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our third amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares and allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our common shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our common shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: · we have failed to provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials in a timely fashion; · we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; · we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or · a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our common shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our common shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. 40 Table of Contents You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time, or from time to time, when it deems appropriate in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement or for any other reason. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which they relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless either the rights and any related securities are both registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 