Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risks, along with the other information contained in and incorporated into this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties also may adversely affect our business and operations. If any of the following events actually occur, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected as borrowers’ ability to repay loans declines and the value of the collateral securing our loans decreases. 17 Table of Contents There has been significant disruption and volatility in the financial and capital markets since 2007. The financial markets and the financial services industry in particular suffered unprecedented disruption, causing a number of institutions to fail or require government intervention to avoid failure. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Further, because a significant portion of our loan portfolio is comprised of real estate related loans, continued decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for loans in our portfolio. As discussed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of this report, we have recently experienced increased losses in our loan portfolio, largely related to the dramatic declines in the housing and financial and capital markets over the past three years, with falling home prices, increasing foreclosures and higher unemployment. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we had $6.2 million in net loan charge-offs, or 2.5% of total loans held for investment. The loan loss provision for the Bank was $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to a provision of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. Impaired loans, which includes loans that are 90 days past due, nonaccrual loans and troubled debt restructurings (TDR) renegotiated loans, were $30.1 million or 12.1% of loans held for investment at December 31, 2009 and $18.3 million or 7.58% of loans held for investment at December 31, 2008. Impaired loans at December 31, 2009 consisted of approximately $27.0 million in non-accrual loans and approximately $3.1 million restructured loans. All of the non-performing loans were non-accrual at December 31, 2008. Although there have been some indications of improvement in the economy, it remains unclear when economic conditions will improve to the extent that will impact our borrowers’ ability to repay their loans, and therefore when these negative trends in our loan portfolio will reverse. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment could have an adverse effect on our borrowers or their customers, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects on the Company and others in the financial institutions industry. As a result, our future earnings continue to be susceptible to further deteriorating economic conditions which may continue to negatively affect our revenues, net income and liquidity. If U.S. credit markets and economic conditions continue to deteriorate, our liquidity could be adversely affected. Our liquidity may be adversely affected by the current environment of economic uncertainty reducing business activity as a result of, among other factors, disruptions in the financial system in the recent past. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past year, with falling real estate prices and increased foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset value write-downs by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and investment banks. These investment write-downs have caused financial institutions to seek additional capital. We operate in a highly regulated environment and may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the OTS, our chartering authority, and by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors and are not intended for the protection of holders of our common 18 Table of Contents stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in connection with their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on the operation of an institution, the classification of assets by the institution and the adequacy of an institution’s allowance for loan losses. Further, regulatory requirements affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and many other aspects of our business. These requirements may constrain our rate of growth. We further anticipate that additional laws and regulations may be enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis that could have an impact on our operations. Any changes in regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, or legislation, may have a material adverse impact on our operations, and we cannot currently predict the impact of any such potential changes. The cost of compliance with regulatory requirements could increase our costs, limit our ability to pursuant certain business opportunities, increase compliance challenges, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. In addition, the burden imposed by these federal and state regulations may place banks in general, and the Bank specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Our focus on commercial and real estate loans may increase the risk of credit losses. We offer a variety of loans including commercial business loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans, home equity loans and consumer loans. We secure many of our loans with real estate (both residential and commercial) in the Maryland suburbs of Washington, D.C. While we believe our credit underwriting adequately considers the underlying collateral in the evaluation process, further weakness in the real estate market could adversely affect our customers, which in turn could adversely impact us. Further, commercial lending, generally carries a higher degree of credit risk than do residential mortgage loans because of several factors including larger loan balances, dependence on the successful operation of a business or a project for repayment, or loan terms with a balloon payment rather than full amortization over the loan term. We face strong competition in our market area, which could hurt our profits and slow growth. We face strong competition in our market area from many other banks, savings institutions, and other financial organizations, as well as many other companies now offering a broad array of financial services. Many of these competitors have greater financial resources, name recognition, market presence and operating experience than we do and are able to offer services that we cannot. If the Bank cannot attract deposits and make loans at a sufficient level, our operating results will suffer, as will our opportunities for growth. Because the Bank serves a limited market area in Maryland, an economic downturn in our market area could more adversely affect us than it affects our larger competitors that are more geographically diverse. Our success is largely dependent on the general economic conditions of our targeted market area of the Baltimore-Washington corridor. Broad geographic diversification is not currently part of our community bank focus. As a result, if our market area continues to suffer an economic downturn, it may more severely affect our business and financial condition than it affects our larger bank competitors. Our larger competitors serve more geographically diverse market areas, parts of which may not be affected by the same economic conditions that may exist in our market area. Further, unexpected changes in the national and local economy may adversely affect our ability to attract 19 Table of Contents deposits and to make loans. Such risks are beyond our control and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the value of our securities. Our operations are susceptible to adverse effects of changes in interest rates. Our operations are substantially dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. As with most depository institutions, our earnings are affected by changes in market interest rates and other economic factors beyond our control. If our interest-earning assets have longer effective maturities than our interest-bearing liabilities, the yield on our interest-earning assets generally will adjust more slowly than the cost of our interest-bearing liabilities, and, as a result, our net interest income generally will be adversely affected by material and prolonged increases in interest rates and positively affected by comparable declines in interest rates. Conversely, if liabilities reprice more slowly than assets, net interest income would be adversely affected by declining interest rates, and positively affected by increasing interest rates. Currently our average interest rate on interest-earning assets has decreased which has impacted our results of operations. At any time, it is likely that our assets and liabilities will reflect interest rate risk of some degree, and changes in interest rates may therefore have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. In addition to affecting interest income and expense, changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets, comprising fixed- and adjustable-rate instruments, as well as the ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. Generally, the value of fixed-rate instruments fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover loan losses and any increase in our allowance for loan losses would adversely affect earnings. We believe we have established an allowance for loan losses to prudently cover the eventuality of losses inherent in our loan portfolio. However, even under normal economic conditions we cannot predict loan losses with certainty. The unprecedented volatility experienced in the financial and capital markets during the last two to three years makes this determination even more difficult as processes we use to estimate allowance for loan losses and reserves may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. As a result, we cannot assure you that charge offs in future periods will not exceed the allowance for loan losses. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our allowance for loan losses and may require additions to the allowance based on their judgment about information available to them at the time of their examination. An increase in our allowance for loan losses could reduce our earnings. We depend on the services of key personnel. The loss of any of these personnel could disrupt our operations and hurt our business. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people, including Phillip Bowman, our CEO and Kevin Huffman, our President. Competition for the best people in most activities engaged in by us can be intense and we may not be able to hire people or to retain them. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse impact on our business because of their skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 20 Table of Contents We face limits on our ability to lend. We are limited in the amount we can loan to a single borrower by the amount of our capital. Generally, under current law, we may lend up to 15% of our unimpaired capital and surplus to any one borrower. As of December 31, 2009, we were able to lend approximately $7.5 million to any one borrower. This amount is significantly less than that of many of our competitors and may discourage potential borrowers who have credit needs in excess of our legal lending limit from doing business with us. We try to accommodate larger loans by selling participations in those loans to other financial institutions, but this strategy is not always available. We may not be able to attract or maintain customers seeking larger loans and we may not be able to sell participations in such loans on terms we consider favorable. Our deposit insurance premiums have increased and could increase further in the future, which could have a material adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the DIF at a specific level. The Bank’s FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in 2009, and we expect to pay significantly higher premiums in the future. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and additional failures are expected, all of which decrease the DIF. In order to restore the DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum of 1.15 percent over a period of several years, the FDIC increased deposit insurance premium rates at the beginning of 2009 and imposed a special assessment on June 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase the assessment rates or impose additional special assessments in the future to keep the DIF at the statutory target level. Any increase in our FDIC premiums, whether as a result of an increase in the risk category for the Bank or in the general assessment rates or as a result of special assessments, could have an adverse effect on the Bank’s profits and financial condition. Our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security, which could damage our reputation and negatively impact our financial condition. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete effectively and operate profitably may depend on our ability to keep up with technological changes. The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially 21 Table of Contents greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. Severe weather and natural disasters, both of which may exacerbated by global climate change, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events cannot be predicted and could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could also affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of our borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 