D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our limited operating history and the unproven long-term potential of our online game business model make evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We began to offer our first product, the free-to-play massively multiplayer online, or MMO, game ZT Online, on a commercial basis in January 2006 (and a free-to-play version of ZT Online, ZT Online Classic Edition, in the third quarter of 2008) and our second free-to-play MMO game, Giant Online, in the fourth quarter of 2007. We commercially launched two free-to-play games, ZT Online Green and My Sweetie, and introduced K III, XT Online and The Golden Land in the second half of 2009; and we plan to commercially launch Dragon Soul and ZT Online II in year 2010. Although we have also commercially launched a pay-to-play game, ZT Online PTP, in the fourth quarter of 2007, we presently expect the substantial majority of our net revenues to continue to be generated by free-to-play games. The free-to-play model is a prevalent, but still relatively new model in the PRC market. As a result, we have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business. We also may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by young companies using new and unproven business models and entering emerging and rapidly evolving markets, including the online game market in China. These risks may include our potential failure to: • retain existing players and attract new players for our online games; • develop, acquire or license additional online games that are appealing to players; • manage licensing arrangements of our online games to third parties; • anticipate and adapt to changing player preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; • continue generating net revenues from the free-to-play model of the majority of our games; • generate benefits from our existing investments and any future investments or acquisitions; • respond in a timely manner to technological changes or resolve unexpected network interruptions; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platform; • comply with changes to regulatory requirements; • manage the current global economic crisis and its effects on our players’ spending habits; • maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses; or • attract and retain qualified personnel or develop successful projects. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the risks listed above, our business may be adversely affected. We have been, and may continue to be, substantially dependent on ZT Online Series, which accounted for nearly all of our historical net revenues. Any reduction in ZT Online Series’ player base or any decrease in its popularity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and any change in the accounting policies relating to that game could cause our online game revenues to fluctuate. Since inception, sales of virtual value-added items and services related to ZT Online Series have accounted for nearly all of our net revenues. We commercially launched ZT Online in 2006 and subsequently commercially launched or introduced multiple versions of ZT Online, which includes ZT Online Classic Edition, ZT Online PTP and ZT Online Green (ZT Online, together with multiple versions of ZT Online launched, introduced or to be launched in the future collectively referred to as “ZT Online Series”). Although we have commercially launched Giant Online in the fourth quarter of 2007, launched My Sweetie and introduced K III, XT Online and The Golden Land in the second half of 2009 and plan to commercially launch Dragon Soul in year 2010, it is expected that we continue to derive the majority of our net revenues in 2010 from our most popular online game, ZT Online Series. Our business will therefore remain highly 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS sensitive to the profitability and popularity of ZT Online Series, and any reduction in the ZT Online Series games player base or any decrease in its popularity in China due to competition with our other online games or those of third parties or otherwise could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in the third quarter of 2009 our quarterly net online game revenues decreased by RMB73.7 million to RMB287.5 million from RMB361.2 million the prior quarter, which we believe was primarily due to a change in our monetization features for ZT Online to reduce the number of in-game promotional items. Furthermore, any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors or any other adverse developments specific to ZT Online Series could prevent and otherwise deter players from making purchases of virtual items and services. This could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With respect to those virtual items that we sell that are not consumed at a predetermined time or otherwise do not have a limitation on repeated use, our accounting policies require us to recognize the related revenue over the estimated lifespan of that virtual item as determined by historical player usage patterns and playing behavior. In some cases, this period can be as long as the estimated lifespan of the game. We continuously monitor the useful life of each type of virtual item we sell and of our games, and will adjust these as appropriate. Any such adjustment may cause our revenues to be recognized over a significantly different time period, and may cause our net revenues to fluctuate from prior periods. For example, in 2008 and 2009, based on our internally calculated gameplay statistics, we determined that inactive players of ZT Online are players who have not played our game in 180 days consecutively, as opposed to 90 days as determined in 2007. As a result of this change, we have lengthened the period we amortize the life of certain virtual items, thereby reducing our online game net revenues. We will also need to expend considerable resources to ensure ZT Online Series’ continued success. To maximize the lifespan of an online game, it is necessary to continuously improve and update the game on a timely basis with new features that appeal to players. We may fail to develop improvements, updates and/or enhancements on a timely basis, if at all. Any such failure may cause the game to lose popularity, which could result in lower net revenues. If we are unable to develop, purchase or license additional online games that are attractive to players and result in overall revenue growth, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected and our ability to recover related product development costs, purchase costs or licensing fees may become limited. In order to maintain our long-term profitability and financial and operational success, we must continually develop, purchase or license new online games that are attractive to players to replace our existing online games as they reach the end of their useful economic life. To date, we have commercially launched and introduced several online games, ZT Online, ZT Online Classic Edition, ZT Online PTP, ZT Online Green, Giant Online, K III, XT Online, My Sweetie, our first casual game and project developed by our Win@Giant incubation program and The Golden Land since 2006. Our new games may not be released on time, may not be profitable or popular among online game players in China and our games may attract players away from one another. In particular, since ZT Online II is a sequel to and shares the same basic plot and features as ZT Online, it may result in attracting away players from ZT Online or ZT Online PTP. If our newly introduced games fail to attract new players and result in increased online game revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our internally developed games will largely depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing consumer tastes and preferences and continually make technical advances in our platform. Developing games internally requires substantial initial investment prior to commercial launch of the games as well as a significant commitment of future resources. In addition, our ability to purchase or license successful online games will depend on their availability at acceptable terms, including price, our ability to compete effectively against other potential purchasers or licensees to attract the developers of these games, and our ability to obtain government approvals required for the purchase or licensing and operation of these games. 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS The games that we develop, purchase or license may not be attractive to players, may be viewed by the regulatory authorities as not complying with content restrictions, may not be launched as scheduled or may not compete effectively with our competitors’ games. Additionally, new technologies in our competitors’ online game programming or operations could render our games obsolete or unattractive to players, thereby limiting our ability to recover related product development costs, purchase costs and licensing fees. If we are not able to successfully develop, purchase or license online games appealing to players, our future profitability and growth prospects will decline. Our new online games may attract away players of our established games, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We commercially launched ZT Online in January 2006 (and introduced ZT Online Classic Edition, a version of ZT Online, in the third quarter of 2008), ZT Online PTP and Giant Online in the fourth quarter of 2007 and ZT Online Green and My Sweetie in the second half of 2009, and introduced K III, XT Online and The Golden Land in the second half of 2009. We also plan to launch Dragon Soul and ZT Online II in year 2010. Our new online games may attract away players of our established games, particularly with respect to games with similar storylines, such as ZT Online and ZT Online II. Although we intend to target different types of players through ZT Online and ZT Online II and therefore minimize players of our existing games leaving such games in favor of our future games, we anticipate such movement may occur. This would decrease our established games’ number of concurrent users, which could make these games less attractive to other players. Furthermore, if former players of our established games spend less money to purchase virtual items and services or playing time on our new online games than they would have spent if they had continued playing our established games, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The online game industry in China is highly competitive. Our MMO games mainly compete with certain MMO games developed and/or operated in China, including Fantasy Westward Journey, developed and operated by NetEase.com, Inc.; World of Warcraft, developed by Blizzard Entertainment and operated by NetEase.com, Inc.; Tian Long Ba Bu, developed and operated by Changyou.com Limited; Zhu Xian, developed and operated by Perfect World, Co., Ltd. and MIR, developed and operated by Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited. Additionally, in 2009, Tencent Holdings Ltd. has increased its presence in the online game market and has obtained significant market share. Our principal competitors also include online game companies such as CDC Corporation, Kingsoft Corporation, Nineyou International Limited, Tencent Holdings Ltd., Webzen Inc., The 9 Limited, Changyou.com Limited, Perfect World, Co., Ltd., Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, NetEase.com, GigaMedia Limited, and Net Dragon Websoft Inc. Furthermore, we expect companies from more developed gaming markets, such as the United States and South Korea, to continue to enter into the online game industry in China and more games developed by overseas entities will be licensed to be operated in Chinese markets. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger international player bases and significantly greater game development, technical, financial and marketing resources than we have. Furthermore, any of our current or future competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with larger, more well-established and well-financed companies and therefore obtain greater financial, marketing and development and licensing resources than we have. This may allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of new online games and technologies similar to or better than our own. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers of employment to our existing and potential employees than we can. In addition, our existing and potential international competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with our local competitors. This may significantly enhance their competitiveness in the online game industry in China. New and increased competition may result in larger discounts demanded by our distributors, or price reductions in our virtual items and services, any of which could adversely affect our net revenues. In addition, 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS increased competition in the online game industry in China could make it difficult for us to retain and expand our existing player base, which could reduce the number of dedicated players and players with high disposable incomes that play our games and from whom we derive most of our net revenues. If we are unable to compete effectively in the online game market in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We and our games have been, and in the future may be, subject to negative publicity, which may discourage people from playing our games and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. ZT Online has developed a large player base since its commercial launch in January 2006, and has therefore been the subject of a large volume of media reports and communications on the Internet by players as well as bloggers and other online commentators, some of which have been negative. ZT Online has also been the subject of criticism relating to technical problems affecting the game from time to time. Some media reports and Internet postings regarding us, our chairman and our games have been false or misleading. Although we take steps to refute and correct this false and misleading information when it comes to our attention, these efforts may not be successful. Negative publicity about our games may lead players to stop playing those games, and might also make them less willing to play any future games that we introduce, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, making them difficult to predict. Our operating results from period to period are highly dependent upon, and will fluctuate, based on the following factors: • the availability, quality and playability of our games; • the period of time over which we recognize revenue for some of our virtual items in our free-to-play games, which in certain cases is based on the estimated lifespan of our virtual items, which may be adjusted from time to time; • the number of games that we and our competitors offer players, and our respective pricing; • changes in our game features and the corresponding impact on player behavior and purchasing patterns (for example, our changes in the monetization structure of ZT Online to reduce the number of in-game promotional activities led to a decrease in our APP in the third quarter of 2008 and cancellation of selected monetization features such as “Treasury Box” in the third quarter of 2009); • the quality, variety, popularity and mix of virtual items and services available for purchase in our free-to-play games and related in-game promotional efforts; • game development costs and licensing or royalty payments for games potentially licensed in the future; • the amount of overseas licensing net revenues generated through our licensing arrangements with operators of our games; • our introduction of new online games, which may attract players away from our established games, and the mix of sales of our games; • the mix of sales through our distributors (who purchase prepaid game cards at a discount to their face value) and direct sales of game points to players through our website; • the breadth and depth of our distribution network and the corresponding availability of our prepaid game cards; • the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; and • seasonality of our sales of prepaid game cards and revenue recognition based on our game players’ behavior, during and around the Chinese New Year holidays in the first quarter, and the National Day holidays in the fourth quarter, when fewer of our targeted players play our games. 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Due to these and other factors, our operating results will vary from period to period, will be difficult to predict for any given period, may be adversely affected from period to period and may not be indicative of our future performance. Our limited resources may affect our ability to manage our growth. Our growth to date has placed, and our anticipated further expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, systems and resources. For example, during the period following the commercial launch of our first online game in January 2006 to December 2009, our total employees (not including liaison personnel) increased from approximately 200 to 1,575. We intend to increase our employee headcount even further, by increasing our number of research and development and customer service representatives. In addition to training and managing our workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies, which would materially and adversely affect our revenue, profitability and competitiveness. We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, including developing new and/or enhanced online games and related products and services to attract more players, expanding our distribution and sales and marketing networks, strengthening our technology and operational platforms, enlarging our product development team, pursuing opportunities for acquisitions, strategic joint ventures, and investments and expanding our markets outside of China. For example, in the fourth quarter 2008 we introduced Win@Giant, an incubation program designed to identify and recruit talented individuals in the areas of game design, development, marketing and engineering. Besides, in the third quarter of 2008, we invested in 51.com, an online social networking company, which we may cooperate with in the future in developing online social networking capabilities in our games. In the second quarter of 2009, we acquired a 51% interest in Hangzhou Snow Wolf Software Co. Ltd. (“Snow Wolf”) to further enrich our game pipelines and enhance our R&D capability. Additionally, in the third quarter of 2009, we made an additional investment in Mobile Embedded Technology Inc., a mobile platform operating company, which provides games on mobile phones and other mobile value added services. Pursuing these strategies may require us to expand our operations through internal development efforts and through partnerships, joint ventures, investments and acquisitions. In 2009, we established several online game research and development subsidiaries, which are 51% owned by the Company and 49% owned by the teams responsible for the research and development. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies, our revenue and profitability may not grow as we expect, and our competitiveness may be materially and adversely affected. We may not sustain our historical growth rate or profitability. We have experienced significant revenue growth in a relatively short period of time. After commercially launching our first game in January 2006, net revenues increased from RMB408.5 million in 2006 to RMB1,527.5 million in 2007 and to RMB1,594.7 million in 2008, representing a 273.9% increase in 2007 and an 4.4% increase in 2008. However, in 2009, our net revenues decreased by 18.2% to RMB1,303.8 million (US$191.0 million) for fiscal year 2009. Although we believe the change in our net revenues in 2009 was largely due to new regulations on certain game features promulgated by the PRC government and a change of our in-game monetization features, we may not sustain our historical levels of revenue growth in future periods due to a number of different factors, including, among others, economic factors out of our control, competitiveness in the online game industry, in which market share can be quickly acquired or lost, the greater difficulty of growing at sustained rates from a larger net revenue base, the need to increase our research and product development expenses in order to develop new and successful games, the potential need to expend greater amounts in order to license or acquire new games, and our inability to prevent our other costs and operating expenses from increasing. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of our future operating performance. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be adversely affected by the slowdown of China’s economy caused in part by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets. We rely on the spending of our game players for our revenues, which may in turn depend on the players’ level of disposable income, perceived future earnings capabilities and willingness to spend. The growth of China’s economy experienced a slowdown after the second quarter of 2008, when the quarterly growth rate of China’s gross domestic product reached 11.9%. A number of factors have contributed to this slowdown, including appreciation of the Renminbi, which has adversely affected China’s exports, and tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government aimed at preventing overheating of China’s economy and controlling China’s high level of inflation. The slowdown was further exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which in recent months has resulted in extreme volatility and dislocation of the global capital markets. In the first quarter of 2009, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product decreased to 6.1%, and the closing of the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index dropped from its high of 6,124 reached on October 16, 2007 to 2,481 on May 21, 2010. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and the degree of adverse impact it will have on the global economy and the economies in China and other jurisdictions where we license our games. If our game players reduce their spending on playing our games due to such uncertain economic conditions, our net revenues may be adversely affected. Our business may be materially harmed if we do not feature our games in a sufficient number of Internet cafés in China. A substantial number of players access our game through Internet cafés. Due to limited space on their computer hard drives, Internet cafés generally only feature a limited number of games on their computers. We thus compete with a growing number of other online game operators to ensure that our games are featured on these computers. This competition may intensify in China due to a recent nationwide suspension of approval for the establishment of new Internet cafés since 2007. We take steps to ensure that our games are featured in a sufficient number of Internet cafés, including maintaining good relationships with Internet café administrators, requiring our distributors to maintain a sales presence in a wide range of Internet cafés and general sales and marketing efforts. If we fail to maintain good relationships with Internet café administrators, or if we and/or our distributors fail to successfully persuade Internet cafés to feature our online games on their computers, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The limited use of PCs in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access with respect to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of PCs in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for PCs in China is much lower than in the United States. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of Internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of PCs and the introduction and expansion of broadband access, the cost of personal Internet access remains relatively high in comparison to the average per capita income in China. The PRC government has also promulgated a number of regulations to curb the growth of Internet cafés. See “— Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could limit our ability to maintain or increase our net revenues and expand our customer base.” The limited use of PCs in China, the relatively high cost of personal Internet access and increased restrictions on Internet cafés may limit the growth of our business. Furthermore, any Internet access or telecommunications fee increase could reduce the number of players that play our online games and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our nationwide distribution network for a significant portion of our net revenues. Failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could materially disrupt our business and harm our net revenues. Online payment systems in China are still in a relatively early stage of development and are not as widely acceptable to customers in China as in the United States. As a result, although we make our prepaid game cards available for purchase online using an online payment system, our business is dependent on the performance of our regional distributors. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, 90.6%, 88.53% and 86.03%, respectively, of our sales proceeds were generated through sales of prepaid game cards to our distributors. Our largest 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS distributor accounted for 6.6%, 6.1% and 6.3%, respectively, of our sales proceeds in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Maintaining relationships with existing distributors may be difficult and time-consuming. Although we typically enter into annual contracts with our distributors, our distribution agreements are not exclusive and do not prohibit our distributors from selling our competitors’ game cards. Our failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could restrict our sales channels or encourage our distributors to seek to distribute our competitors’ products, each of which could materially disrupt our business and harm our net revenues. Furthermore, our growth strategy entails expanding our distribution network, which may be difficult to achieve in a timely manner or at all. We may be unable to effectively manage our nationwide distribution network. Any failure by our distributors to operate in compliance with our distribution agreements and applicable law may result in liability to us, may interrupt the effective operation of our distribution network, may harm our games’ reputation and may result in decreased net revenues. We have limited ability to manage the activities of our distributors, who are independent from us. In addition, our distributors and the Internet cafés and other outlets in which they sell our prepaid game cards may violate our distribution agreements or the sales agreements between our distributors and the retail outlets. Such violations may include, among other things: • failure to meet minimum sales targets or penetration targets, or failure to maintain minimum price levels for our prepaid game cards in accordance with our distribution agreements; • failure to properly promote our online games in local Internet cafés and other important outlets, or failure to cooperate with our sales and marketing team’s efforts in their designated territories; and • selling our prepaid game cards outside their designated territories, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights that we have granted to other distributors. Some of our distributors have committed such types of violations in the past, which resulted in our terminating our existing distribution agreements with the offending parties. If we decide to fine, suspend or terminate our distributors for acting in violation of our distribution agreements, or if the distributors fail to address material violations committed by any of their retail outlets, our ability to effectively sell our prepaid game cards in any given territory could be negatively impacted. These and similar actions could also negatively affect our games and our corporate image, possibly resulting in loss of players and a decline in sales. Additionally, we may be liable in China for legal or regulatory violations by any of our distributors. We have significantly reduced our number of liaison personnel. Beginning in the third quarter of 2008, we reduced our number of liaison personnel, from over 2,500 employees to approximately 1,550 employees by December 31, 2009, in order to reduce costs. We believe the reduction in our sales and marketing team will enhance our productivity while allowing us to maintain our previous ability to market our games and generate net revenues. However, the loss of part of our previous sales and marketing team may result in us being unable to sufficiently market our games, our former employees being employed by our competitors, or our remaining employees being unable to meet our productivity standards, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to administrative fines and other penalties in Taiwan. In October 2006, we entered into a series of transactions whereby we attempted to obtain a 51% indirect equity interest in Lager Network, the Taiwan-based developer of K III and the graphics engine we use in Giant Online, and holder of the license to operate ZT Online in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore. Our Taiwan legal counsel, Lee & Li, advised us that these transactions were void from the outset because of legal and administrative restrictions in Taiwan that apply to ownership of Taiwanese assets by PRC persons. These transactions were subsequently unwound. If the Taiwan regulators were to view our investment in Lager Network as not being void from the outset, we may be required to take further action to unwind our acquisition of Lager Network, and our rights to any consequent equity interests in Lager Network could be suspended, we could be ordered to cease and withdraw our consequent investment in Lager Network within a 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS specified period, and we could be fined for our continued non-compliance. This could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could be liable for breaches of security of our website and third-party online payment system, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, 9.4%, 11.47% and 13.97% respectively, of our sales proceeds were generated from sales of our game points through a third-party online payment system. In such transactions, secure transmission of confidential information, such as customers’ debit and credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, over public networks, including our official game website, is essential for maintaining consumer confidence. We currently provide password protection of our VIP player accounts and verification hardware for all of our player accounts. In addition, we are developing certain new tools to better ensure the security of our players’ accounts in the future. While we have not experienced any breach of our security measures to date, such current security measures may be inadequate. In addition, we expect that an increasing number of our sales will be conducted over the Internet as result of the growing use of online payment systems. We also expect that associated online crime will likely increase accordingly. We must therefore be prepared to increase our security measures and efforts so that our customers have confidence in the reliability of the online payment system that we use. We do not have control over the security measures of our third-party online payment operator, and its security measures may not be adequate at present or may not be adequate with the expected increased usage of online payment systems. We could be exposed to litigation and possible liability if we fail to secure confidential customer information, which could harm our reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage players to purchase our game points. Unexpected network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain players. All of the game servers operating our games, and all of the servers handling log-in, billing and data back-up matters for us are hosted and maintained by third party service providers. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware. In the past, our server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third party service providers. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, hacking and similar events. Any network interruption, virus or other inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our online games or deterioration in the quality of access to our online games could reduce our players’ satisfaction and ultimately harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any security breach caused by hackings, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our network systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. Enhancements and rules changes to our games have resulted, and may continue to result, in players deciding not to play our games or making legal claims against us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We periodically introduce expansion packs and make changes to our games based on feedback gathered from users and in order to encourage player behavior consistent with the basic principles of our game-playing environment. For example, in the third quarter of 2009, we canceled certain in-game monetization features, of which the most important feature is virtual treasure box, which may contain in-game items worth more than the cost of the treasure box itself, and allowing players to hire in-game “substitute players,” which enables 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS them to raise their characters’ experience levels without actually playing. We believe this change was the main reason for the subsequent temporary decrease in our active paying players, which fell by 7.9% from approximately 1,204,000 as of the quarter ended June 30, 2009 to 1,108,000 as of the quarter ended September 30, 2009. Our active paying players subsequently increased by 2.7% to approximately 1,138,000 in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. However, the ability for players to adjust to game enhancements or policy changes and return to playing our games may or may not occur in response to future enhancements or changes in policies we introduce, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our players may choose to litigate if they are dissatisfied with our game adjustments. For example, in May 2007 we were sued for damages in a local court by a player in Jilin Province in response to a rule change we implemented, whereby payments of gold coins on our virtual insurance policies, exchangeable for transferable virtual items, were modified to payments of gold coin vouchers, exchangeable for non-transferable virtual items. We had made this rule change to discourage selling of these virtual items on third-party auction websites, which could result in lower revenues generated for us by our games and which we believe is inconsistent with our game-playing principles. On November 30, 2007, the court dismissed the case for the failure to state a claim. While the amount of damages sought in this lawsuit was not significant, an unfavorable judgment against us could have subjected us to lawsuits from other players seeking damages based on similar claims, the aggregate of which could be substantial. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Undetected programming errors or defects in our games and the proliferation of cheating programs could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our online games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to us have in the past, and may again in the future, develop Internet cheating programs that enable our users to acquire superior features for their game characters for which they would otherwise be required to pay or otherwise earn through game play. Furthermore, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a player. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could damage our and our games’ reputations and result in players being discouraged from playing our games and purchasing virtual items and services in our games. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior management. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of Yuzhu Shi, our founder, controlling beneficial owner and chief executive officer, in our business operations and game development, and rely on his personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, our distributors, our advertising media and Lager Network, the developer of K III and the graphics engine we use in Giant Online and holder of the license to operate ZT Online in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our senior management. If one or more of our senior management are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. As a result, our business may be severely disrupted, our financial conditions and results of operations may be materially adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. If any disputes arise between our executive officers and us, we cannot assure you the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside and hold most of their assets, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our founder, controlling beneficial owner and chief executive officer, Yuzhu Shi, was previously involved in various enterprises, some of which were the subject of claims or legal actions. Over the past 19 years, our founder, controlling beneficial owner and chief executive officer, Yuzhu Shi, previously founded, managed or was substantially involved in various enterprises, including Zhuhai Giant Hi-Tech Group Limited, or Zhuhai Giant, Giant Investment Co., Ltd., or Giant Investment, Shanghai Jiante Shengming Technology Co., Ltd., Shanghai Jiante Bio-Technology Co., Ltd., Ready Finance Limited, Stone Group Holdings Limited and Shanghai Youyuan Gardening Co., Ltd. Zhuhai Giant was founded by Mr. Shi in 1991, and Mr. Shi served as its president from 1992 to 1995. In 1998, Zhuhai Giant engaged in an unsuccessful real estate venture, which caused Zhuhai Giant to cease operations with significant outstanding debts and claims for repayment. Zhuhai Giant settled these claims through negotiations with the relevant claimants. In addition, Giant Investment and its subsidiaries were previously the subject of several claims, administrative actions and negative publicity relating to the alleged false advertising of one of its products. Previous or potential new claims relating to these enterprises, or negative publicity relating thereto, could divert Mr. Shi’s attention from the management of our company, discourage investors or lenders from providing capital or loans that we may require in the future. If we are unable to attract, train and retain key individuals and highly skilled employees, our business may be adversely affected. If our business continues to expand, we will need to hire and retain additional qualified employees, including skilled and experienced online game developers. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to retain key personnel in the future. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we introduced Win@Giant, an incubation program designed to attract talented employees, developers and business partners. While this program is intended to supplement and not replace our normal hiring efforts, we cannot assure you that this program will be successful or that we will be able to attract or retain the qualified game developers or other key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. As a rapidly growing company, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the increasing demands of our business, which could adversely affect our business and future growth prospects. Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Selective acquisitions form part of our strategy to expand our business. For example, in the third quarter of 2008, we acquired a 25% interest in 51.com, a China based social networking company, for approximately US$51.1 million. In the third quarter of 2009, we acquired a 20% interest in Mobile Embedded Technology Inc., a mobile platform operation company, for US$5.0 million. We do not, however, have any prior experience integrating any new companies into ours or utilizing assets from acquired companies in our business, and we believe that integration of a new company’s operation and personnel will require significant management attention. 51.com is currently operating as an independent entity from us. Should we decide to further integrate 51.com or any future acquired businesses into our business, the diversion of our management’s attention from our business and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We may pursue acquisitions of companies, technologies and personnel that are complementary to our existing business. However, our ability to grow through future acquisitions or investments or hiring will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition and investment candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract these candidates, and the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions. Since we expect the online game industry to consolidate in the future, we may face significant competition in executing our growth strategy. Future acquisitions or investments could result in potential dilutive issuances of equity securities or incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop and any particular acquisition or investment may not produce the intended benefits. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Future acquisitions would also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of the integration of new businesses. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business may adversely affect our business and reputation. We have historically relied on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we presently enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with most of our employees, in the past we only required more senior employees or those in commercially or technically sensitive positions to do so. We cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, third parties. As of December 31, 2009, we own 20 registered trademarks in total and are in the process of applying for the registration of 277 trademarks in China and 151 trademarks overseas. We cannot assure you that any of these trademark applications will ultimately proceed to registration or will result in registration with scope adequate for our business. Some of our pending applications or registrations may be successfully challenged or invalidated by others. If our trademark applications are not successful, we may have to use different marks for affected services or technologies, or enter into arrangements with any third parties who may have prior registrations, applications or rights, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Implementation of intellectual property laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property right protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, trademarks and other intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to infringement and misappropriation claims in the future, which may cause us to incur significant expenses, pay substantial damages and be prevented from providing our services or technologies. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to carry out our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent, copyright or trademark infringement, or other violations of intellectual property rights of third parties. In particular, the patent field covering online games and related technology is rapidly evolving and surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty, and we cannot assure you that our technologies, processes or methods would not be covered by third-party patents, either now existing or to be issued in the future. Future litigation may cause us to incur significant expenses, and third-party claims, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages, seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, redesign our services or technologies, or prevent us from providing services or technologies subject to these claims. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation would likely be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. We have no general business insurance coverage, which may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to subscribe for such insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Except for legally required automobile liability insurance, we also do not carry any property or casualty insurance. Any business disruption or litigation, or any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2009, and our independent registered public accounting firm reported on our internal controls over financial reporting, our management may conclude in the future that our internal controls are not effective. Our or our independent public accounting firm’s failure to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Our reporting obligations as a public company will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial reporting processes, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Information Industry of China. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. Although the PRC government has pledged to improve the Internet infrastructure in China as part of its stimulus packaged introduced in the first quarter of 2009, a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure may not be developed in China. We or the players of our online games may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. We face risks associated with the licensing of our games overseas, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business internationally. As of the date of this annual report, we have granted to Lager Network the license to operate ZT Online in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, Malaysia and Singapore. We have also granted an exclusive license to VinaGame Software Service Joint Stock Company, or VinaGame, to operate ZT Online in Vietnam. We granted an exclusive license to Astrum Nival, LLC, or Astrum Nival, to operate ZT Online in the Russia and other Russian speaking territories. We may further license our existing and new games in other countries and regions. The offering of our games in the international markets could expose us to a number of risks, including: • difficulties in identifying and maintaining good relationships with licensees who are knowledgeable about, and can effectively distribute and operate our games in, international markets; • difficulties in maintaining the reputation of our company and our games, given that our games are operated by licensees in the international markets pursuant to their own standards; • difficulties in and costs of protecting our intellectual property rights internationally; 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS • difficulties and costs relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which we offer our games, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; • difficulties and uncertainties in obtaining software export contract registration license from the relevant PRC authorities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • interruptions in cross-border Internet connections or other system failures. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business PRC regulations relating to our industry are evolving. Any adverse or unanticipated regulatory changes could significantly harm our business or limit our ability to operate. Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations in the online game industry. If the PRC government finds that our past or current structure for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our operations. Foreign ownership in Internet content providers, which includes online games, is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates Internet access and the operation of online games through strict business licensing requirements and other laws and regulations, which also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide Internet content. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than a 50% equity interest in any Internet content provider. In addition, foreign and foreign-invested enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating online games in China. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, we and our PRC subsidiary are treated as foreign or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC laws and regulations. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we operate our online games in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into between our PRC subsidiary, Shanghai Zhengtu Information Technology Co., Ltd, or Zhengtu Information, and Shanghai Giant Network Technology Co., Ltd, or Giant Network, which is beneficially owned by certain of our officers and directors and other individuals, all of whom are PRC citizens. Giant Network holds a Telecommunications and Information Services Operating License, or ICP license, issued by the Shanghai Municipal Information Commission, a local branch of the Ministry of Information Industry, which allows Giant Network to provide Internet content distribution services in Shanghai. This license is essential to the operation of our business. Despite the lack of technical majority ownership, there exists a parent-subsidiary relationship between our Cayman Islands Company and Giant Network through the irrevocable proxy agreement, whereby equity holders of Giant Network effectively assigned all of their voting rights underlying their equity interest to our Cayman Islands Company. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Giant Network pursuant to which Zhengtu Information, our wholly owned subsidiary, provides technical support and an exclusive software license to Giant Network. As a result of these contractual arrangements, under U.S. GAAP, we are also considered the primary beneficiary of Giant Network and, accordingly, we consolidate its historical results in our financial statements. For detailed descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see “Information on the Company — Organizational Structure” and “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions.” The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of the law. For example, on July 26, 2006, the Ministry of Information Industry publicly released the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Operating Value-added Telecom Business, dated July 13, 2006, or the MII Notice, which reiterates certain provisions under China’s Administrative Rules on Telecommunications Enterprises prohibiting a domestic company that holds an ICP license from renting, transferring or selling a telecommunications license to a foreign investors in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to foreign investors that intend to conduct value-added telecom business illegally in China. There is currently no official interpretation or implementation practice under the MII Notice. It remains uncertain how the MII Notice will be enforced and whether or to 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS what extent the MII Notice may affect the legality of the corporate and contractual structures adopted by online game companies that operate in China, such as ours. We have made inquiries with officials at the Ministry of Information Industry but have not yet been able to obtain a definitive answer regarding implementation of the MII Notice and any implications for the legality of our corporate and contractual structures. If our corporate and contractual structures are deemed by the Ministry of Information Industry to be illegal, either in whole or in part, we may have to modify such structures accordingly to comply with regulatory requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we can achieve this without material disruption to our business. On September 28, 2009, the General Administration of Press and Publications, or the GAPP, the National Copyright Administration, and National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly published the Notice Regarding the Consistent Implementation of the “Stipulations on ‘Three Provisions”’ of the State Council and the Relevant Interpretations of the State Commission Office for Public Sector Reform and the Further Strengthening of the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Internet Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Internet Games (Xin Chu Lian [2009] No. 13), or the GAPP Notice. The GAPP Notice restates the general principle espoused in recently promulgated regulations that foreign investment is not permitted in Internet game operating businesses in China. Article IV of the GAPP Notice prohibits foreign investors from participating in Internet game operating businesses via wholly owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments in China, and from controlling and participating in such businesses directly or indirectly through contractual or technical support arrangements. In the event of a violation of these provisions, GAPP shall, in conjunction with the relevant departments of the PRC, investigate and handle the same in accordance with the law. In serious cases, the relevant licenses and registrations shall be cancelled. However, as a detailed interpretation of the GAPP Notice has not been issued, it is not yet clear how this GAPP Notice will be implemented. Furthermore, as some other government authorities like the Ministry of Commerce, the MOC, and the MII did not join GAPP in issuing the Notice, the views of these bodies will be indefinite in clarifying the scope of implementation and enforcement of the GAPP Notice. If the past or current ownership structures, contractual arrangements and businesses of our company, Zhengtu Information or Giant Network are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, including the MII Notice and the GAPP Notice, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of Zhengtu Information or Giant Network, which are essential to the operation of our business; • levying fines; • confiscating our income or the income of Zhengtu Information or Giant Network; • shutting down our servers or blocking our website; • discontinuing or restricting our operations or the operations of Zhengtu Information or Giant Network; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, Zhengtu Information or Giant Network may not be able to comply; • requiring us, Zhengtu Information or Giant Network to restructure the relevant ownership structure, operations or contractual arrangements; • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from our public offering to finance our business and operations in China; and • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS The contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entity and its shareholders, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. In addition, these arrangements may be difficult and costly to enforce under PRC law. We rely on contractual arrangements with Giant Network and its shareholders in China to operate our business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Information on the Company — Organizational Structure” and “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us control over Giant Network. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of Giant Network, which, in turn, could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if Giant Network or its shareholders fails to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce those arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may include seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, any of which may not be effective. For example, if any of Giant Network’s shareholders refuses to transfer its equity interest in Giant Network to us or our designee when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, or if any of those individuals otherwise act in bad faith towards us, we may have to take legal action to compel it to fulfill its contractual obligations. In addition, as Giant Network is jointly owned by its shareholders, it may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against it or its shareholders if any of them fails to perform their obligations under the related contracts or does not cooperate with any such actions by us. All of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC laws and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC laws and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, we may be unable to exert effective control over Giant Network and our ability to conduct our business may be negatively affected. The contractual arrangements entered into among our PRC subsidiary, our affiliated entity and its shareholders may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities; a finding that our PRC subsidiary or our affiliated entity owes additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among Zhengtu Information, our PRC subsidiary, Giant Network, our affiliated entity, and Giant Network’s shareholders do not represent arm’s-length prices and adjust any of their income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in, for PRC tax purposes, a reduction of expense deductions recorded by Zhengtu Information or Giant Network or an increase in taxable income, all of which could in turn increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Zhengtu Information or Giant Network for under-paid taxes. Our business benefits from certain preferential tax treatment and other government incentives. Expiration, discontinuation, or reduction of such treatment will increase our tax burden and reduce our net income. Under certain PRC tax laws effective until December 31, 2007, the PRC government provided various incentives to domestic companies in the software and certain technology industries in China in order to encourage development of those industries. Both Zhengtu Information and Giant Network historically received preferential income tax treatments due to their status as software enterprises and high-tech enterprises located in the Caohejing Economic Development Zone of Xuhui District of Shanghai. Specifically, both entities enjoyed a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 15%, as compared to the statutory rate of 33%, and fixed-term 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS tax exemptions and reductions prior to 2007, and with respect to Zhengtu Information, in 2007. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Taxation — China.” In addition, we have been receiving government financial incentives based on business taxes and VAT paid by us, and for qualification as high technology projects and expect to continue to receive them through December 31, 2014 because there are no conditions or performance-based obligations attached to these incentives other than our continued registration in our present district in Shanghai and they are not subject to refund. These incentives were granted by the Shanghai local government, and there can be no assurance that such incentives we are currently enjoying will not be modified or challenged by the central government or the taxation authority. We received financial incentives totaling RMB16.8 million and RMB63.1 million and RMB88.5 million (US$13.0 million) in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. If these incentives are modified or otherwise challenged by any government authority, the loss will reduce our net income. In 2007 China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. The New EIT Law (i) reduces the top rate of enterprise income tax from 33% to 25%, (ii) permits companies to continue to enjoy their existing tax incentives, subject to certain transitional phase-out rules, and (iii) replaces tax incentives under the old laws with new tax incentives, subject to new qualification criteria (for example, the New EIT Law permits a new category of “high- and new-technology enterprises” to enjoy a reduced enterprise tax rate of 15%). Under the phase-out rules, enterprises established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law and which were granted preferential EIT treatment under the then effective tax laws or regulations may continue to enjoy their preferential tax treatments until their expiration. Accordingly, Zhengtu Information, an enterprise established before the promulgation date of the New EIT Law, will continue to enjoy its preferential treatment under the phase-out rules. In addition, certain government authorities announced the new implementation of rules for application and assessment of “high- and new-technology enterprise” in April 2008 and every qualified company needs to re-apply for this qualification according to the new implementation rules. Zhengtu Information and Giant Network had obtained the qualification certificates of “high- and new-technology enterprises” status with a valid period of three years starting from 2008 to 2010. However, the continued qualification of a “high- and new-technology enterprises” for calendar year of 2010 will be subject to annual evaluation by the relevant government authority in China. In addition, Zhengtu Information and Giant Network will need to apply for an additional three-year extension upon the expiration of the current qualification certificate if they desire to continue to enjoy the 15% reduced rate. We cannot assure you that the tax authorities will not, in the future, discontinue any of our preferential tax treatments, potentially with retroactive effect. The discontinuation of any of our preferential tax treatments could materially increase our tax obligations. See “Item 5. — Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results — Taxation — China.” We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” under the PRC New EIT Law; such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The New EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. In addition, a circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese enterprise controlled companies established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC shareholders. This circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the enterprise income tax, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, the circular mentioned above details that certain Chinese-invested enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the directors or senior management having 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS voting rights. If the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Island holding company is a “resident enterprise,” we may be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income and 10% of withholding tax on dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders and, while less clear, capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our stock, may be subject to a PRC withholding tax. Such determination could have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, and may require us to withhold tax on our non-PRC shareholders. We are actively monitoring the “resident enterprise” classification rules and our Cayman Island holding company’s facts and circumstances relative to the classification rules. Similar results could follow if our BVI subsidiary is considered a PRC “resident enterprise.” Strengthened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. In connection with the new EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 are effective retroactively to January 1, 2008. Under the two circulars, non-PRC-resident enterprises may be subject to income tax on capital gains generated from their transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises. The PRC tax authorities have discretion under Circular 59 and Circular 698 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of the investment. In addition, by promulgating and implementing the circulars, the PRC tax authorities have increased their scrutiny of the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-PRC-resident enterprise. For example, Circular 698 specifies that the PRC State Administration of Taxation is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial purpose. Since we pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies, and have conducted and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures, the PRC tax authorities may, at their discretion, adjust for capital gains, or request us to submit additional documentation for their review, in connection with any of our acquisitions, thus causing us to incur additional acquisition costs. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could limit our ability to maintain or increase our net revenues and expand our customer base. Starting in 2001, the Chinese government began tightening its supervision of Internet cafés, closing unlicensed Internet cafés, requiring those remaining open to install software to prevent access to sites deemed subversive and requiring web portals to sign a pledge not to host subversive sites. In February 2007, 14 PRC national government authorities, including the Ministry of Information Industry, the Ministry of Culture and the General Administration of Press and Publication, jointly issued a notice suspending nationwide approval for the establishment of new Internet cafés beginning 2007 and enhancing the punishment for Internet cafés admitting minors. This suspension may continue indefinitely. Furthermore, the Chinese government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may slow down the growth of Internet cafés. As Internet cafés are the primary venue for users to play our games, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés in China will limit our ability to maintain or increase our net revenues and expand our customer base, which will in turn materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we fail to obtain or maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. The online game industry in China is highly regulated by the Chinese government. Various regulatory authorities of the Chinese central government, such as the State Council, the GAPP, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the online game industry. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are required to obtain various permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to operate online games. For example, an Internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain an ICP license in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. In addition, an online game operator must also obtain a license from the Ministry of Culture and a license from the GAPP in order to distribute games through the Internet. Some of the licenses are subject to annual inspection by relevant government authorities, such as the ICP license. If we fail to maintain any of these required permits or approvals, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and the discontinuation or restriction of our operations. Any such disruption in our business operations would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since we have licensed ZT Online to some overseas companies such as Lager Network, VinaGame and Astrum Nival for operation outside mainland China, we are required to submit our software export contracts to the data center of the Ministry of Commerce and obtain a software export contract registration license. Failure to obtain this license may cause us to incur penalties such as warning and restrictions on or discontinuation of our self-export operations. For the games that we commercially launched in or after 2010, such as Dragon Soul, Elsword, Allods Online and ZT Online II, there is an additional set of regulatory requirements with which we must comply. This includes obtaining game content approval from the Ministry of Culture, completing registration with the Ministry of Commerce and the State Copyright Bureau, obtaining a software product registration certificate from the Ministry of Information Industry, and obtaining a publication approval from the General Administration of Press and Publication. Any failure by us to obtain these permits or approvals may cause us to suspend operation of our online games, or otherwise cause us to incur penalties, including fines and restrictions on or discontinuation of our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations As the online game industry is at an early stage of development in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those we currently have, and address new issues that may arise. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of current and any future Chinese laws and regulations applicable to the online games industry. While we believe that, we are in compliance with all applicable Chinese laws and regulations currently in effect with the exception of those the violation of which has been disclosed in this annual report or would not otherwise have an adverse effect on Zhengtu Information and Giant Network as a whole, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws and regulations. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our websites. In recent years, the Chinese government has adopted certain regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, ICPs and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that contradicts the fundamental principles of China’s Constitution; compromises state security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; harms the dignity or interests of the state; incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination or damages inter-ethnic unity; sabotages China’s religious policy or propagates heretical teachings or feudal superstitions; disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; propagates obscenity, pornography, gambling, violence, murder or fear or incites the commission of crimes; insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful rights and interests of a third party; or includes other content prohibited by laws or administrative regulations. Any person that fails to comply with these requirements may have its ICP license and other required licenses revoked and its websites shut down. In the past, failure to comply with these requirements has resulted in the closure of some websites. Website operators may also be held liable for censored information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to their websites. We believe that we are currently in compliance with the regulations and policies mentioned above. However, the Chinese government authorities may not take a view that is consistent with ours. The Ministry of Information Industry has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content included on their websites and the actions of users and others using their websites, including liability for violations of Chinese laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider, or ISP, to block any Internet website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of State secrets of the Chinese government, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the dissemination of online information. As these regulations are relatively new and subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for us as a website operator. In addition, we may not be able to control or restrict the content of other ICPs linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our websites by our users, despite our attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of our content objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information or otherwise curtail the nature of such content on our websites, which may reduce our user traffic and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be subject to significant penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our operations. The PRC government controls virtually all Internet access in China, and requires all computers sold in China to be installed with government-designated software to censor websites deemed inappropriate by the government, which may potentially discourage or restrict the use of the Internet or our online games, and consequently adversely impact our business, financial conditions and results of operation. The PRC government controls virtually all Internet access in China and may occasionally block Internet access throughout the country or in certain regions due to political concerns, in particular in response to, or out of concerns with respect to, special incidents or significant events, thereby preventing people in China, including our game players, from accessing the Internet and playing our online games. On May 19, 2009, the MII issued a notice regarding the Pre-installment of Green Dam Web Filter Software on Computers. According to this notice, commencing on July 1, 2009, all computers sold in China are required to be installed with a government-designated software, called Green Dam — Youth Escort, to block “unhealthy words or pictures.” However, according to media reports, such software may compromise the security of personal information. Given the controversy generated by this notice, the MII announced on June 30, 2009 that it would extend the deadline for the implementation of the notice. According to recent media reports, the minister of the MII further stated on August 13, 2009 that the Chinese government will not require all computers sold in China to be installed with the filter software but that computers used in schools, Internet cafes and other public places will be required to be installed with the filter software in order to prevent young people from being harmed by unhealthy online content. It is currently unclear to what extent this notice would be implemented. Although this notice is not intended to block access to online games, if any content of our online games is found by the filter software to contain “unhealthy words or pictures,” our website may be blocked by the software, and as a result users who play our games will not be able to access our online games, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operation. Compliance with the laws or regulations governing virtual currency may result in us having to obtain additional approvals or adversely affect our game operation revenues. In June 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce jointly published the Notice on Strengthening the Administration Work of the Virtual Currency in Online Games, or the Virtual Currency Notice, to require businesses that (i) issue online game virtual currency (in the form of prepaid cards and/or pre-payment or prepaid card points) or (ii) offer online game virtual currency transaction services to apply for approval from the MOC through its provincial branches within three months following the date of such notice. The Virtual Currency Notice prohibits businesses that issue online game virtual currency from providing services that would enable the trading of such virtual currency. Any business that fails to submit the requisite application will be subject to sanctions, including but not limited to warnings, mandatory corrective measures and fines. The Virtual Currency Notice also prohibits online game operators from allocating virtual items or virtual currency to players based on random selection through lucky draw, wager or lottery which involves cash or virtual currency directly paid by the players. The Virtual Currency Notice also regulates, among other things, 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS that game operators may not issue virtual currency to game players through means other than purchased by game players with legal currency. Moreover, any businesses that do not provide online game virtual currency transaction services are required to adopt technical measures to restrict the transfer of online game virtual currency among accounts of different game players. The above restrictions may limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burdens and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. A Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, was promulgated by the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, in October 2005 that requires registration with the local SAFE in connection with direct or indirect offshore investments by PRC residents. The regulation applies to our shareholders who are PRC residents and also applies to our offshore acquisitions. The Notice 75 retroactively requires registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. On May 29, 2007, SAFE issued guidance to its local branches for implementing Notice 75. The guidance standardizes more specific and stringent supervision on the registration relating to Notice 75. Specifically it requires PRC residents holding any equity interest in offshore companies, directly or indirectly, controlling or nominal, to make registration with SAFE and imposes obligations on the PRC subsidiaries of offshore companies to facilitate and urge registrations by relevant PRC residents and to file with SAFE the stock options granted by offshore companies to any PRC resident. The registration and filing procedures under Notice 75 are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investments or shareholders loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquisocial networking distributions, equity sale proceeds, or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. We have already notified our shareholders, and the shareholders of the offshore entities in our corporate group, who are PRC residents to urge them to make the necessary applications and filings as required under this regulation. However, as a result of uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulation and ambiguities in SAFE registration procedures for registering PRC residents’ share obtained from exercise of share options, 131 PRC individuals in all who have exercised their options to purchase our ordinary shares in accordance with our Employee Share Option Scheme are currently unable to register their share ownership with Shanghai SAFE. These individuals are actively communicating with Shanghai SAFE to seek alternative solutions. We do not expect that the inability by those individuals to register share ownership with Shanghai SAFE will have a material adverse effect on our business. We are committed to complying, and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulation comply, with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Giant Network, our variable interest entity, or VIE, in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Giant Network, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from our initial public offering to Giant Network through our subsidiary in the PRC, which may adversely affect the business expansion of Giant Network, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from our initial public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies, or establish other VIEs in the PRC. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with recent PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. In December 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the Administrative Measures on Individual Person Foreign Exchange, or the PBOC Regulation, setting forth the respective requirements for foreign exchange transactions by individuals (both PRC or non-PRC citizens) under the current account and the capital account. In January 2007, SAFE issued the implementation rules for the PBOC Regulation which, among others, specified the approval requirement for certain capital account transactions such as a PRC citizen’s participation in the employee stock ownership plan or stock options plan of an overseas listed company. On March 28, 2007, SAFE promulgated the Implementing Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange regarding PRC Individuals’ Participating in Employee Stock Ownership Plan and Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Stock Option Rule, to further clarify the formalities and application documents in connection with the subject matter. Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares by an overseas publicly-listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly-listed company, to complete certain other procedures and transactional foreign exchange matters upon the examination by, and approval of, SAFE. Failure to comply with the Stock Option Rule may subject the plan participants, the company offering the plan or the relevant intermediaries, as the case may be, to fines and legal or administrative sanctions under PRC foreign exchange regime. Our business may be adversely affected by public opinion and government policies in China. Internet cafés, which are currently the most important outlets for online games, have been criticized by the general public in China for having exerted a negative influence on young people. Due primarily to such adverse public reaction, regulators in China have tightened their regulation of Internet café operations through, among other things, suspending the issuance of new operating licenses and further reducing the hours during which the Internet cafés are permitted to remain open for business. Also, local and higher-level governmental authorities may from time to time decide to more strictly enforce age limits and other requirements relating to Internet cafés as a result of the occurrence of, and the media attention on, gang fights, arson and other incidents in or related to Internet cafés. As most of our customers access our games from Internet cafés, any restrictions on Internet café operations could result in a reduction of the amount of time our customers spend on our online games or a reduction in or slowdown in the growth of our player base. Moreover, any adverse public reaction to the online game industry may discourage players from spending too much time playing our online games, which could limit the growth of or reduce our net revenues. In addition, it is also possible that the Chinese government authorities may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction or otherwise. Any such restrictions on online game playing would adversely affect our business and results of operations. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our operations may be adversely affected by implementation of addiction-related regulations. The Chinese government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to monitor the online game industry as a result of adverse public reaction to perceived addiction to online games, particularly by minors. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Information Industry issued a Notice on the Implementation of Online Game Anti-Addiction System to Protect the Physical and Psychological Health of Minors (the “Anti-Addiction Notice”), requiring all Chinese game operators to adopt an “anti-addiction system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-addiction system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy,” three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing,” and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor players by half when those players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game. This system allows game operators to identify which players are minors. Failure to comply with the requirements under the Anti-Addiction Notice may subject us to penalties, including but not limited to suspension of our operation of online games, revocation of our licenses and approvals for our operations, rejection or suspension of our application for approvals, licenses, or filings for any new game, or prohibiting us from operating any new game. We currently do not permit juvenile players to play our online games. If these restrictions are expanded to apply to adult players in the future, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our corporate structure may limit our ability to receive dividends from, and transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiary, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operations are conducted through our PRC subsidiary, Zhengtu Information, and our affiliated entity, Giant Network. Current regulations in China permit our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with their articles of association and PRC accounting standards and regulations. The ability of Zhengtu Information to make dividends and other payments to us may be restricted by factors that include changes in applicable foreign exchange and other laws and regulations. In particular, under PRC law, our subsidiary may only pay dividends after 10% of its after-tax profits have been set aside as reserve funds, unless such reserves have reached at least 50% of its registered capital. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. The PRC Income Tax Law also imposes a 10% withholding income tax on dividends distributed by a foreign invested enterprise to its immediate holding company outside China, which were exempted under the previous income tax and rules. A lower withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between mainland China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding company, and subject to certain conditions upon Chinese tax authority’s approval. The foreign invested enterprise will be subject to the withholding tax starting on January 1, 2008. There was no distribution of dividends from the Group’s PRC subsidiaries in 2008 and 2009. Zhengtu Information is also required to allocate a portion of its after-tax profits, as determined by its board of directors, to its staff welfare and bonus funds, which may not be distributed to its shareholders. In addition, if our operating subsidiary incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Moreover, the profit available for distribution from our operating subsidiary is determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in China. This calculation may differ from one performed in accordance with U.S. GAAP. As a result, we may not have sufficient distributions from our PRC subsidiaries to enable necessary profit distributions to us or any distributions to our shareholders in the future, the calculation of which would be based upon our financial statements prepared under U.S. GAAP. Distributions by our PRC subsidiaries to us other than as dividends may be subject to governmental approval and taxation. Any transfer of funds from our company to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of Chinese governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC subsidiaries could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to China Our operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic, political, social and environmental conditions. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our net revenues are derived from our sale of virtual items and services in our online games in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and future prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and social conditions in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operation may be adversely affected by changes in tax regulations applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, including a decline in individual spending activities, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operational and financial condition. In particular, our business is primarily dependent upon the economy and the business environment in China. Our growth strategy is based upon the assumption that demand in China for online games will continue to grow with the Chinese economy. However, the growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. Several years ago the Chinese economy also experienced deflation, which may reoccur in the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. Natural disasters may also adversely affect our business and results of operation. For example, on May 12, 2008 an earthquake of magnitude 8.0 struck southwest China and caused the death of over 70,000 people. The State Council published a public notice on observation of the three-day mourning period from May 19, 2008 to May 21, 2008. On April 14, 2010, an earthquake of magnitude 7.1 struck southwest China and caused the death of over 2,000 people. The State Council published another public notice on observation of one mourning day on April 21, 2010. According to the public notices, all public recreational activities were to be suspended during the mourning period. In compliance with the public notice, we suspended all our three games, namely ZT Online, ZT PTP and Giant Online, and suspended revenue collection as a result of game play during the three-day period in order to express our condolences to the earthquake victims. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC subsidiary, Zhengtu Information, is a foreign-invested enterprise incorporated in China. It is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than in more developed legal systems. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the online game industry, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, and our foreign investors, including you. There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing virtual asset property rights and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have relating to the loss of virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our players’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by online game players and in some cases are traded between players for actual money or real assets. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. There are currently no PRC laws and regulations governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, it is unclear who is the legal owner of virtual assets and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In the event of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by players and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies may limit our ability to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. Substantially all of our net revenues are currently generated in Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use net revenues generated in Renminbi to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. Although the PRC government introduced the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules in 1996, as amended in August 2008, to allow greater convertibility of Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot assure you the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon some of our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. It would also be difficult for investors to bring an original lawsuit against us or our directors or executive officers before a Chinese court based on U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Moreover, our PRC legal counsel, Grandall Legal Group (Shanghai), has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Any future outbreak of the H1N1 virus (swine flu), avian flu or severe acute respiratory syndrome in China, or similar adverse public health developments, may severely disrupt our business and operations and reduce the market for our products and services. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS Adverse public health epidemics or pandemics could disrupt businesses and national economies in China. For example, from December 2002 to June 2003, China and certain other countries experienced an outbreak of a new and highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. During May and June of 2003, many businesses in China were closed by the PRC government to prevent transmission of SARS. The World Health Organization has announced that there is a high likelihood of an outbreak of avian flu, with the potential to be as disruptive if not more disruptive than SARS. Recently, the World Health Organization has warned of the global spread of the H1N1 virus (swine flu), which has been reported as affecting individuals in China and have resulted in quarantines for individuals exposed to and infected by the virus. Any recurrence of the SARS outbreak, an avian flu outbreak, an H1N1 virus outbreak or development of a similar health hazard in China may disrupt consumer spending. In addition, health or other government regulation may require temporary closure of our offices and operations or of the third party service providers that host and maintain our servers. Lastly, such outbreak may cause the sickness or death of our key management and employees. Any of such occurrences would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the current policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As substantially all of our costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, the revaluation beginning in July 2005 and potential future revaluation has and could further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from our U.S. investments, if any, into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile which could result in a loss to you. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of competitive developments; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies with comparable businesses; • regulatory developments in China affecting us, our industry, our corporate structure or our advertisers; • announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • addition or departure of our executive officers; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional common shares or ADSs. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Future sales or perceived sales of ADSs or ordinary shares by existing shareholders could cause our ADS price to decline. If our existing shareholders sell, indicate an intention to sell or are perceived to intend to sell substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, the trading price of our ADSs could decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had 226,819,007 outstanding ordinary shares. On October 31, 2009, the two year lockup agreement entered into by our current chief executive officer and chairman, Yuzhu Shi, during our public offering expired with respect to 102,000,000 of our ordinary shares, which he may sell in conformance with Rules 144 and 701 of the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, the 3,629,400 ordinary shares subject to outstanding options under our 2006 Plan and 2007 Plan are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of their various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities. As at December 31, 2009, our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities owned approximately 55.86% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert control over and substantially influence matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. For example, between February 2006 and June 2007, prior to the establishment of our current board of directors, including our independent directors, Giant Network and Zhengtu Information made interest-free advances in the total amount of RMB900.0 million to Shanghai Jiante Shengming Technology Co., Ltd., a company controlled by Yuzhu Shi, our controlling beneficial owner. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company that might reduce the price of our ADSs. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income, or are held for the production of passive income, is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. We believe that we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2009. Although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and, because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which are likely to fluctuate, there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2010 or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. See “Item 10. — Additional Information — E. Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — Passive foreign investment company.” You may lose some or all of the value of a distribution by the depositary if the depositary cannot convert RMB into U.S. dollars on a reasonable basis at the time of such distribution for regulatory or other reasons. 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. The depositary will convert any cash dividend or other cash distribution we pay on the ordinary shares into U.S. dollars, if it can do so on a practicable basis and can transfer the U.S. dollars to the United States. If that is not possible or if any approval from any government is needed and cannot be obtained, the depositary is allowed to distribute RMB only to those ADS holders to whom it is possible to do so. It will hold RMB it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. However, it will not invest RMB and it will not be liable for interest. In addition, if the exchange rates fluctuate during a time when the depositary cannot convert RMB at the time of such distribution for regulatory or other reasons, the ADS holders who have not been paid may lose some or all of the value of the distribution. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which they relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless either the rights and any related securities are both registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States; or 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS • to entertain original actions brought against us or our directors or officers predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (i) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (ii) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (iii) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (iv) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (v) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (vi) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. You should also read “Description of Share Capital — Differences in Corporate Law” for some of the differences between the corporate and securities laws in the Cayman Islands and the United States. You will have limited ability to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, because we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, because we conduct a majority of our operations in China and because the majority of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct all of our operations in China through our subsidiary and affiliated entity established in China. All of our directors and officers reside outside the United States and substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the Cayman Islands or in China in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the Cayman Islands and China, see “Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” Shareholders of Cayman Islands exempted companies such as ourselves have no general rights under Cayman Islands law to inspect corporate records and accounts or to obtain copies of lists of shareholders of these companies. Our directors have discretion under our articles of association to determine whether or not, and under what conditions, our corporate records may be inspected by our shareholders, but are not obliged to make them available to our shareholders. This may make it more difficult for you to obtain the information needed to establish any facts necessary for a shareholder motion or to solicit proxies from other shareholders in connection with a proxy contest. Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, your ability to protect your interests if you are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable you to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. As a “controlled company,” we are exempt from certain New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements, which may result in our independent directors not having as much influence as they would if we were not a controlled company. We are a “controlled company” as defined under Section 303A of the Corporate Governance Rules of the New York Stock Exchange, the NYSE, because one of our shareholders holds more than 50% of our voting power. As a result, for so long as we remain a controlled company as defined under that rule, we are exempt from, and our shareholders generally are not provided with the benefits of, some of the NYSE corporate governance requirements, including that: • a majority of our board of directors must be independent directors; 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS • our compensation committee must be composed entirely of independent directors; and • our corporate governance and nomination committee must be composed entirely of independent directors. Although we currently have a majority of independent directors, that may change in the future. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is five days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. The depositary of our ADSs will, except in limited circumstances, grant to us a discretionary proxy to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, which could adversely affect your interests and the ability of our shareholders as a group to influence the management of our company. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to a holder of ADSs if it consists of securities that require registration under the Securities Act but that are not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration is required for such distribution. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material and adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duty under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS 