Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. General Risks Affecting Our Business We currently derive a substantial portion of our revenue from our two primary customers, DISH Network and Bell TV. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from, or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes, transponder leasing, provision of digital broadcast services and/or other products or services to DISH Network or Bell TV would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. DISH Network accounted for 59.9%, 82.5% and 81.3% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Bell TV accounted for 7.9%, 8.6% and 10.5% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Any reduction in sales to DISH Network or Bell TV or in the prices they pay for the products and services they purchase from us could have a significant negative impact on our business. In addition, because a significant portion of our revenue is derived from DISH Network and Bell TV, our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued success of DISH Network and Bell TV in attracting new subscribers and in marketing programming packages and other services and features to subscribers that will require the purchase of new digital set-top boxes, and in particular, new digital set-top boxes at the high-end of our product range that incorporate high-definition, multiple tuners and other advanced technology. If DISH Network’s gross subscriber additions are adversely affected by the sustained economic weakness in the U.S. or for any other reason, we may experience a decline in our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network. As disclosed by DISH Network in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, DISH Network experienced fewer gross subscriber additions during 2011. Therefore, it is possible that DISH Network will purchase fewer digital set-top boxes and related components from us in the future than it purchased during the year ended December 31, 2011. This decrease could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, to the extent that DISH Network experiences fewer gross new subscriber additions, sales of our digital set-top boxes and related components to DISH Network may further decline, which in turn could have a further material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, the timing of orders for digital set-top boxes from these two customers could vary significantly depending on equipment promotions these customers offer to their subscribers, changes in technology, and their use of remanufactured digital set-top boxes, which may cause our revenue to vary significantly quarter over quarter and could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These inventory risks are particularly acute during product end-of-life transitions in which a new generation of digital set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation digital set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Furthermore, because of the maturing and competitive nature of the digital set-top box business, the limited number of potential new customers and the short-term nature of our purchase orders with DISH Network and Bell TV, we could in the future experience downward pricing pressure on our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network or Bell TV, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. DISH Network is currently our primary customer of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operation services. These products and services are provided pursuant to contracts that expire on December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Thereafter, if we are unable to extend those contracts on similar terms with DISH Network, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain acceptable replacement contracts from third parties following a termination by DISH Network, there could be a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 18 Table of Contents There are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our digital set-top boxes, satellite services and digital broadcast operations, and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these customers. In addition, we may from time to time enter into customer agreements providing for exclusivity periods during which we may sell a specified product only to that customer. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. Historically, many of our potential customers have perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any commercial relationships with potential customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and certain shared management services). Economic weakness, including high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. A substantial portion of our revenue comes from providers of pay-TV services that in turn derive a substantial majority of their revenue from residential customers whose spending is affected by economic uncertainty. Our business also depends on the economic health and willingness of our customers and potential customers to make and adhere to capital and financial commitments to purchase our products and services. The U.S. and world economy experienced significant slowdown and other weaknesses in the past few years, and the economic environment may continue to be unfavorable in the future. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment and other factors that may adversely affect our EchoStar Technologies segment and providers of pay-TV services and the telecommunications industry. In particular, the weak economic conditions may result in the following: · Decreased Demand and Increased Pricing Pressure. Subscribers to pay-TV services may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary spending, which may in turn decrease demand for programming packages from pay-TV providers that include set-top box equipment manufactured by us. Increased pricing pressures may result in reduced margins for pay-TV providers, including DISH Network and Bell TV and may reduce demand for high-end digital set top boxes on which we earn higher gross margins. Furthermore, pay-TV providers may increasingly look to make purchases from foreign set-top box suppliers primarily located in Asia with lower-priced products as their customers become more cost-sensitive in making purchase decisions as a result of weak economic conditions. In addition, the telecommunications industry has been facing significant challenges resulting from excess capacity, new technologies and intense price competition. If the U.S. and world economic conditions continue to be volatile or deteriorate further or if the telecommunications industry experiences future weakness, we could experience reduced demand for, and pricing pressure on, our products and services, which could lead to a reduction in our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. · Excess Inventories and Satellite Capacity. There is an increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories as a result of possible lower demand for pay-TV services and the resultant lower demand for digital set-top boxes from pay-TV providers. We may also have excess satellite capacity resulting from possible decreased demand for pay-TV services and other services utilizing satellite transmission. · Increased Impairment Charges. Sustained economic weakness could result in substantial future impairment charges relating to, among other things, satellites, FCC authorizations, goodwill and intangibles, and our debt and equity investments. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. Our business and the market in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and frequent product and service introductions and enhancements. If we are unable to properly respond to or keep pace with technological developments, or fail to develop new technologies, our existing products and services may become obsolete and demand for our products and services may decline. Even if we keep up with technological innovation, we may not meet the demands of the network communications market. If we are unable to respond to or keep pace with technological advances on a cost-effective and timely basis, or if our products, applications or services are not accepted by the market, then our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. For instance, there is increasing demand for the delivery of digital video services via the Internet. If this increasing demand, along with other changes in technology leads pay-TV subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, Internet ready televisions, blu-ray players or gaming consoles, instead of set-top boxes, to receive their pay-TV services, our customers may not need to purchase our digital set-top boxes to provide their subscribers with their pay-TV services. Our competitors may also introduce technologies that compete favorably with our digital set-top boxes or that cause our digital set-top boxes to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If we fail to timely obtain such technologies from our suppliers or introduce products and services with superior technologies, if the new technologies developed by us or our partners fail to achieve sustained acceptance in the marketplace or become obsolete, or if our competitors obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could in turn decrease our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. Even if we keep up with technological innovation, we may not meet market demands. Our response to technological developments depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of such employees is intense. Although we strive to attract and retain these employees, we may not succeed in this respect. Certain of our sales to DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed on short notice, which would have a detrimental effect on us. DISH Network has no obligations to continue to purchase our products and only certain obligations to continue to purchase certain of our services. Therefore, our relationship with DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed with little or no advance notice. Any material reduction in our sales to DISH Network would have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, if we lose DISH Network as a customer, it will be difficult for us to replace, in whole or in part, our historical revenues from DISH Network because there are a relatively small number of potential customers for our products and services, and we have had limited success in attracting such potential customers in the past. We may be required to raise and refinance indebtedness during unfavorable market conditions. We may need to raise additional debt in order to fund ongoing operations or to capitalize on our business opportunities. Recent developments in the financial markets have made it more difficult for issuers of high yield indebtedness such as us to access capital markets at reasonable rates. Currently, we have not been materially impacted by events in the current credit market. However, we cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted in the future by the current conditions which may adversely affect our ability to secure additional financing to support our growth initiatives. In addition, weakness in the financial markets could make it difficult for us to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. Instability in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In particular, it may be difficult for us to raise debt financing on 20 Table of Contents acceptable terms. In addition, sustained economic weakness may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by sustained economic weakness. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. We have entered into certain strategic transactions and investments in North and South America, Asia and elsewhere. These investments involve a high degree of risk and could diminish our ability to fund our stock buyback program, invest capital in our business or return capital to our shareholders. The overall sustained economic uncertainty, as well as financial, operational and other difficulties encountered by certain companies in which we have invested increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. These investments could also expose us to significant financial losses and may restrict our ability to make other investments or limit alternative uses of our capital resources. In particular, the laws, regulations and practices of certain countries may make it harder for our international investments to be successful. If our investments suffer losses, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively or there may be insufficient demand for the services and products offered by these companies. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business, which may not be successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Our future success may depend on the existence of, and our ability to capitalize on, opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies or partner with other companies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combination activities to complement or expand our business. In addition, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere. Any such acquisitions, transactions or investments that we are able to identify and complete which may become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: · the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; · possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; · exposure to significant financial losses if the transactions and/or the underlying ventures are not successful; and/or we are unable to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction; · the inability to obtain in the anticipated time frame, or at all, any regulatory approvals required to complete proposed acquisitions, transactions or investments; and · the risks associated with complying with regulations applicable to the acquired business which may cause us to incur substantial expenses. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that may otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases or capital expenditures that we otherwise may have made. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services and related technologies, as well as entry into new business areas. Investments in new technologies and business areas are inherently speculative and commercial success thereof depends on numerous factors including innovativeness, quality of service and support, and effectiveness of sales and marketing. We may not achieve revenue or profitability from such investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, even if such products, services, technologies and business area become profitable, their operating margins may be minimal. 21 Table of Contents We may not be aware of certain foreign government laws or regulations or changes to them which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to laws or regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. There is no assurance that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate new satellites, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. We, our customers and companies with whom we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our satellites. Because laws and regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. Our international sales and operations are subject to applicable laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We must comply with foreign national requirements for the registration of satellites and associated obligations. We may not be aware of the laws for new markets in which we intend to conduct business. Furthermore, for those countries in which we are presently conducting business, the requirements relating to satellite registration and satellite services could be changed. Non-compliance with these requirements may result in the loss of the authorizations and licenses to conduct business in these countries. We must comply with all applicable export control laws and regulations of the U.S. and other countries. U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us include the Arms Export Control Act, the ITAR, the EAR and the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the OFAC. The export of certain hardware, technical data and services relating to satellites is regulated by the U.S. Department of State’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls under ITAR. Other items are controlled for export by the BIS under EAR. We cannot provide services to certain countries subject to U.S. trade sanctions unless we first obtain the necessary authorizations from OFAC. Violations of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions including fines, more onerous compliance requirements, debarments from export privileges or loss of authorizations needed to conduct aspects of our international business. A violation of ITAR or the other regulations enumerated above could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions that generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or giving or promising to give anything of value to foreign officials and other individuals for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business or gaining a competitive advantage. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. However, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced corruption to some degree. If we are found to be liable for violating these laws, we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The loss of or infringement of our intellectual property rights could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We rely on our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted, which could require us to change our business practices or limit our ability to compete effectively or could otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even 22 Table of Contents if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Moreover, due to the rapid pace of technological change, we rely in part on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses or other required intellectual property rights from these third parties on reasonable terms, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Technology licensed from third parties may have undetected errors that impair the functionality or prevent the successful integration of our products or services. As a result of any such changes or loss, we may need to incur additional development costs to ensure continued performance of our products or suffer delays until replacement technology, if available, can be obtained and integrated. In addition, we work with third parties such as vendors, contractors and suppliers for the development and manufacture of components that are integrated into our products and our products may contain technologies provided to us by these third parties. We may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether any such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our vendors, contractors and suppliers may not be required to indemnify us in the event that a claim of infringement is asserted against us, or they may be required to indemnify us only up to a maximum amount, above which we would be responsible for any further costs or damages. Legal challenges to these intellectual property rights may impair our ability to use the products and technologies that we need in order to operate our business and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in February 2012, ViaSat and its subsidiary ViaSat Communications filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California against Space Systems Loral (“SS/L”), the manufacturer of EchoStar XVII/Jupiter, our next generation satellite currently under construction. ViaSat alleges, among other things, that SS/L infringes four different patents, and has breached its contractual obligations through the use of such patented technology to manufacture EchoStar XVII/Jupiter and other satellites. While we are not a named party to this matter, an adverse decision against SS/L could have a significant impact on our business operations and impair our ability to make use of the EchoStar XVII/Jupiter satellite or use the satellite in the timeframe we have anticipated. Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure or those of our third-party service providers could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new offerings, product or service interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringes valid intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringement. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to license the 23 Table of Contents necessary intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have not been an independent company for a significant amount of time and we may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. Prior to our Spin-off from DISH Network, our business was operated by DISH Network as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. DISH Network’s senior management oversaw the strategic direction of our businesses and DISH Network performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to: · human resources related functions; · accounting; · tax administration; · legal and external reporting; · treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and insurance functions; and · information technology and telecommunications services. DISH Network and its affiliates are currently obligated to provide certain of these functions to us pursuant to the management services agreement and the professional services agreement between us and DISH Network. See Note 17 in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. If DISH Network does not continue to perform effectively the services that are called for under the management services agreement and the professional services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. In addition if, once the management services agreement and the professional services agreement terminate, we do not have in place our own systems and business functions, we do not have agreements with other providers of these services or we are not able to make these changes cost-effectively, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Mr. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and certain other key executives. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives or the ability of Mr. Ergen or certain other key executives to devote sufficient time and effort to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives have certain agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we generally do not have employment agreements with them. Paul W. Orban, our Controller, provides services to us pursuant to a management services agreement with DISH Network. In addition, Roger J. Lynch also serves as Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies of DISH Network. To the extent these and other officers are performing services to both DISH Network and us, their attention may be diverted away from our business and therefore adversely affect our business. 24 Table of Contents We have substantial debt outstanding and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2011, our total debt, including the debt of our subsidiaries, was approximately $2.534 billion. Our debt levels could have significant consequences, including: · making it more difficult to satisfy our obligations; · having a dilutive effect on our outstanding equity capital or future earnings; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic conditions, including changes in interest rates; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; · requiring us to devote a substantial portion of our available cash and cash flow to make interest and principal payments on our debt, thereby reducing the amount of available cash for other purposes; · limiting our financial and operating flexibility in responding to changing economic and competitive conditions; and · placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less debt. In addition, we may incur substantial additional debt in the future. The terms of the indentures relating to our senior notes permit us to incur additional debt. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the risks we now face could intensify. Risks Affecting Our EchoStar Technologies Segment We depend on sales of digital set-top boxes for a substantial portion of our revenue and a decline in sales of our digital set-top boxes would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our historical revenues consist primarily of sales of our digital set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, nearly all of our revenue from sales of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network, Bell TV and Dish Mexico. If the sustained economic weakness persists, demand for digital set-top boxes from our three significant customers could decrease and, consequently, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. While we expect that DISH Network will continue to purchase digital set-top boxes and related components from us, DISH Network experienced fewer gross subscriber additions during 2011 which could result in DISH Network purchasing fewer digital set-top boxes and related components from us than it has purchased during the year ended December 31, 2011. Our business may suffer if our customer base does not compete successfully with existing and emerging competition. Our existing customers face competition from providers of digital media, including those companies that offer online services distributing movies, television shows and other video programming. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming compete with our customers’ pay-TV services. To the extent that these technologies compete successfully against our customers for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our satellite television digital set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. Our future financial performance depends in part on our ability to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. Our products were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of satellite-delivered digital television. Our sales of digital set-top boxes to providers of digital television other than providers of satellite-delivered digital television have not been significant. The cable set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most cable set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships with cable operators. This competition, and our perception by many potential customers as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network, may make it more difficult for us to sell cable set-top boxes, and may result in pricing pressure, low profit 25 Table of Contents margins, high sales and marketing expenses and limited market share, any of which could, to a certain extent, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Component pricing may remain stable or be negatively affected by inflation, increased demand, decreased supply, or other factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of digital set-top boxes. A significant portion of the production costs of digital set-top boxes relate to the purchase of electronic components, the costs of which have historically fallen over time. To the extent that component pricing does not decline or increases, whether due to inflation, increased demand, decreased supply or other factors, we may not be able to pass on the impact of increasing raw materials prices or labor and other costs, to our customers, and we may not be able to operate profitably. For example, we entered into a digital set-top box contract extension with Bell TV under which we supply digital set-top boxes to Bell TV at fixed prices over the duration of the contract. Under this fixed-price arrangement, we bear any risk of increased costs because we are not able to pass any increase in our component pricing on to Bell TV. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further due to, among other things, an increase in the sales of lower-priced digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and increased competitive pricing pressure Furthermore, our ability to increase the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes is limited and our average selling price may decrease even further in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, lack of demand for our new product introductions or other factors. If we are unable to increase or at least maintain the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes, or if such selling prices further decline, and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by developing and introducing new products and continually reducing our product costs, our revenues and gross margin may be negatively affected, which will harm our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to other operators depends on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems utilized by these other operators. Our commercial success in selling our digital set-top boxes to cable television and other operators depends significantly on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems deployed by these operators in our digital set-top boxes. In many cases, the intellectual property rights to these conditional access systems are owned by the set-top box manufacturer that currently provides the system operator with its set-top boxes. We cannot assure you that we will able to obtain required licenses on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain the necessary licenses, we may be delayed or prevented from pursuing the development of some potential products with cable or other television operators. Our failure to obtain a license to use the conditional access systems that we may require to develop or commercialize our digital set-top boxes with cable television or other operators, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. Growth in our EchoStar Technologies segment likely requires expansion of our sales to international customers, and we may be unsuccessful in expanding international sales. We believe that to grow our digital set-top box revenue and business and to build a large customer base, we must increase sales of our digital set-top boxes in international markets. We have had limited success in selling our digital set-top boxes internationally. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must develop and manage new relationships with cable operators and other providers of digital television in international markets. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers and deal with these challenges in our international operations, the size of our total addressable market may be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. 26 Table of Contents If we are successful in growing sales of our digital set-top boxes to international customers, we may be subject to additional risks including, among other things, trade barriers and political instability abroad. We may be subject to greater risks than our competitors as a result of international expansion. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our products or services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we sell our digital set-top boxes. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of the U.S., it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Furthermore, we may be subject to currency risks with respect to payments from our international customers and our international customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. The digital set-top box industry is extremely competitive. Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold set-top boxes to major cable operators in the U.S. for many years. These competitors include Motorola Mobility, Cisco (which owns Scientific Atlanta), Pace and Technicolor. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing satellite set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies that do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital video providers. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants, principally located in Asia, that offer low cost set-top boxes. The set-top box market is intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing. We expect to face additional competition from companies, principally located in Asia, which offer low cost set-top boxes, including set-top boxes that are modeled after our products or products of our principal competitors. The entry of these new competitors may result in increased pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by such new entrants, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, it may be difficult for us to make profitable sales in international markets where these new competitors are present and in which we have not previously made sales of set-top boxes. If we do not distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as build and strengthen our brand recognition, our business could be harmed as we may not be able to effectively compete on price alone against new low cost market entrants that are principally located in Asia. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues and earnings could decline. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and may experience quality or supply problems. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture or associated software. Set-top boxes may contain software “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with their operation. Defects may also occur in components and products that we purchase from third-parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the digital set-top boxes that we sell. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and harm to our reputation if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. 27 Table of Contents If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for pay-TV services that utilize digital set-top boxes, we may not be able to sustain our current revenue level. We are substantially dependent upon the ability of our customers to promote the delivery of pay-TV services, including, among others, premium programming packages and services that utilize technology incorporated into our digital set-top boxes, such as HD technology and IPTV, to generate future revenues. However, our customers may be unsuccessful in promoting value-added services or may promote alternative packages, such as free programming packages, in lieu of promoting packages that utilize our high-end digital set-top box offerings. If our customers are unable to develop and effectively market compelling reasons for their subscribers to continue to purchase their pay-TV services that utilize our more advanced digital set-top boxes, it will be difficult for us to sustain our historical revenues. This risk is exacerbated by the sustained economic weakness under which consumers become more cost-sensitive in their discretionary spending and by increasing consumer demand for online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming that competes with our customers’ pay-TV services. Our reliance on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for several components used in our digital set-top boxes could restrict production, result in higher digital set-top box costs and delay deliveries to customers. We obtain many components for our digital set-top boxes from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on a single or limited group of suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increasing reliance on subcontractors, involves several risks. These risks include a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality, and timely delivery of these components. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstances requiring us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship our digital set-top boxes on a timely basis, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business, resulting in a loss of market share, and reduce revenues and income. For example, during 2011, several regions of Thailand experienced severe flooding, causing damage to infrastructure, housing and factories. Certain of our suppliers are located in Thailand. To the extent that component production has been affected, we have worked to obtain alternative sources of supply or implement other measures. Based on our current assessment of the situation, we do not believe this event will have a material impact on our set-top box supply; however, because the situation is still evolving, uncertainty remains regarding the ultimate impact of this event. Any product shortages and resulting installation delays could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. We generally maintain low inventory levels and do not make binding long-term commitments to suppliers. As a result, it may be difficult in the future to obtain components required for our products or to increase the volume of components if demand for our products increases. The sustained economic weakness may cause certain suppliers that we rely on to cease operations which, in turn, may cause us to suffer disruptions to our supply chain or incur higher production costs. Our future growth depends on growing demand for advanced technologies. Future demand for our digital set-top boxes will depend significantly on the growing demand for advanced technologies, such as HDTV, 3D TV, a whole-home HD DVR and broadband Internet connectivity. The effective delivery of advanced technologies, such as HDTV and 3D TV, will depend on digital television operators developing and building infrastructure to provide widespread HDTV and 3D TV programming. If the deployment of, or demand for, advanced technologies, such as HDTV, 3D TV, a whole-home HD DVR and broadband Internet connectivity, is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue growth will be limited. 28 Table of Contents If the encryption and related security technology used in our digital set-top boxes is compromised, sales of our digital set-top boxes may decline. Our customers use encryption and related security technology obtained from us or our suppliers in the digital set-top boxes that they purchase from us to control access to their programming content. Such encryption and related security technology has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our customers’ programming content. As a result, sales of our digital set-top boxes may decline and we may incur additional costs in the future if security of our customers’ system is compromised. Risks Affecting Our EchoStar Satellite Services and Hughes Segments We currently face competition from established competitors in the satellite service business and may face competition from others in the future. We compete against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat, SES S.A. and Telesat. Because the satellite services industry is relatively mature, our growth strategy depends largely on our ability to displace current incumbent providers, which often have the benefit of long-term contracts with customers. These long-term contracts and other factors result in relatively high costs for customers to change service providers, making it more difficult for us to displace customers from their current relationships with our competitors. In addition, the supply of satellite capacity available in the market has increased in recent years, which makes it more difficult for us to sell our services in certain markets and to price our capacity at acceptable levels. Competition may cause downward pressure on prices and further reduce the utilization of our fleet capacity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our EchoStar Satellite Services segment also competes with fiber optic cable and other terrestrial delivery systems, which may have a cost advantage, particularly in point-to-point applications where such delivery systems have been installed. Our owned and leased satellites in orbit are subject to significant operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite design and manufacturing defects, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites or satellite capacity. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits, which pass through the geostationary belt at various points and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our 29 Table of Contents satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our satellites have minimum design lives ranging from 12 to 15 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual operational lives of our satellites, which may be shorter than their design lives. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the continued operation of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their design and construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. In addition, we cannot guarantee that another satellite will be available for use as a replacement for a failed or lost satellite, or that such relocation can be accomplished without a substantial utilization of fuel. Any such utilization of fuel would reduce the operational life of the replacement satellite. Our satellites under construction are subject to risks related to construction and launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellite construction and launch are subject to significant risks, including delays, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Construction and launch delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Historically, we have not carried launch insurance on our satellites; if a launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of launch failures, whether on our satellites or those of others may significantly reduce the availability of launch insurance on our satellites or make launch insurance premiums uneconomical. Our business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Our business is subject to varying degrees of regulation in the U.S. by the FCC, and other entities, and in foreign countries by similar entities and internationally by the ITU. These regulations are subject to the political process and have changed from time to time. Moreover, a substantial number of foreign countries in which we have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the ownership of satellites and the distribution and ownership of programming services and foreign investment in telecommunications companies. Violations of laws or regulations may result in various sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations and the denial of applications for new authorizations or for the renewal of existing authorizations. Further material changes in law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our business and the business of our affiliates will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. Our business depends on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services we provide to our customers. The significance of such a loss of 30 Table of Contents authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the orbital location, the frequency band and the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers legislation that could affect us and enacts legislation that does affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. Our use of certain satellites is often dependent on satellite coordination agreements, which may be difficult to obtain. Satellite transmissions and the use of frequencies often are dependent on coordination with other satellite systems operated by U.S. or foreign satellite operators, and it can be difficult to determine the outcome of these coordination agreements with these other entities. The impact of a coordination agreement may result in the loss of rights to the use of certain frequencies or access to certain markets. The significance of such a loss would vary and it can therefore be difficult to determine which portion of our revenues will be impacted. Furthermore the satellite coordination process is conducted under the guidance of the ITU radio regulations and the national regulations of the satellites involved in the coordination process. These rules and regulations could be amended and could therefore materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our operating results. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are able to design and build satellites according to the technical specifications and standards of quality we require, including Astrium Satellites, Boeing Satellite Systems, Lockheed Martin, SS/L and Thales Alenia Space. There are also a limited number of launch service providers able to launch such satellites, including International Launch Services, Arianespace, United Launch Alliance and Sea Launch Company. The loss of any of our manufacturers or launch service providers could increase the cost and result in the delay of the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Even if alternate suppliers for such services are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner or we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and this could result in difficulties or delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Any delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not have commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we use and could face significant impairment charges if one of our uninsured satellites fails. Historically, we have not carried launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We generally do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites, other than SPACEWAY 3, EchoStar XVI and EchoStar XVII/Jupiter, and often do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of launch or in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of such failures. If one or more of our in-orbit uninsured satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. The enterprise network communications industry is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against other terrestrial and satellite-based network providers in our enterprise groups. We operate in a highly competitive enterprise network communications industry in the sale and lease of our products and services. This industry is characterized by competitive pressures to provide enhanced functionality for the same or lower price with each new generation of technology. As the prices of our products decrease, we will need to sell more products and/or reduce the per-unit costs to improve or maintain our results of operations. We face competition from providers of terrestrial-based networks, such as fiber, DSL, cable modem service, Multiprotocol Label Switching and Internet protocol-based virtual private networks, which may have advantages over satellite networks for certain customer applications. Terrestrial-based networks are offered by telecommunications carriers and other large companies, many of which have substantially greater financial resources and greater name recognition than us. 31 Table of Contents The costs of a satellite network may exceed those of a terrestrial-based network, especially in areas that have experienced significant DSL and cable Internet build-out. It may become more difficult for us to compete with terrestrial providers as the number of these areas increases and the cost of their network and hardware services declines. We also compete for enterprise clients with other satellite network providers, satellite providers that are targeting small and medium businesses and smaller independent systems integrators on procurement projects. The consumer network communications market is highly competitive. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against fiber, DSL, cable service providers and other satellite broadband providers in the consumer market. We face competition in our consumer group primarily from fiber, DSL and cable Internet service providers. Also, other telecommunications, satellite and wireless broadband companies have launched or are planning the launch of consumer satellite Internet access services in competition with ours in North America. Some of these competitors offer consumer services and hardware at lower prices than ours. In addition, terrestrial alternatives do not require our external dish which may limit customer acceptance of our products. Our primary competitor for consumer satellite Internet access services is ViaSat Communications, which is owned by ViaSat. Following the commencement of service on ViaSat-1 by ViaSat Communications and prior to the commencement of service on EchoStar XVII/Jupiter, ViaSat Communications may be in a better position economically to offer faster connection speeds than us, and there can therefore be no assurance that our product offerings will remain competitive with those of ViaSat Communications. As discussed above, there can be no assurance that the expected launch of EchoStar XVII/Jupiter in the summer of 2012 will not be delayed or will not fail. We are dependent upon third-party providers for components, manufacturing, installation services, and customer support services, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if any of these third-party providers fail to appropriately deliver the contracted goods or services. We are dependent upon third-party services and products provided to us, including the following: · Components. A limited number of suppliers and in some cases a single supplier manufacture some of the key components required to build our products. These key components may not be continually available and we may not be able to forecast our component requirements sufficiently in advance, which may have a detrimental effect on supply. If we are required to change suppliers for any reason, we would experience a delay in manufacturing our products if another supplier is not able to meet our requirements on a timely basis. In addition, if we are unable to obtain the necessary volumes of components on favorable terms or prices on a timely basis, we may be unable to produce our products at competitive prices and we may be unable to satisfy demand from our customers. · Commodity Price Risk. Many of our products contain components whose base raw materials have undergone dramatic cost fluctuations in the last 24 months. Fluctuations in pricing of raw materials have the ability to affect our product costs. Although we have been successful in offsetting or mitigating our exposure to these fluctuations, such changes could have an adverse impact on our product costs. · Manufacturing. While we develop and manufacture prototypes for our products, we use contract manufacturers to produce a significant portion of our hardware. If these contract manufacturers fail to provide products that meet our specifications in a timely manner, then our customer relationships may be harmed. · Installation and customer support services. Each of our North American and international operations utilizes a network of third-party installers to deploy our hardware. In addition, a portion of our customer support and management is provided by offshore call centers. Since we provide customized services for our customers that are essential to their operations, a decline in levels of service or attention to the needs of our customers could adversely affect our reputation, renewal rates and ability to win new business. 32 Table of Contents We currently have unused satellite capacity in our EchoStar Satellite Services segment, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are not able to lease more of this capacity to third parties. While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of our satellite capacity (including, but not limited to, supplying satellite capacity for new international ventures), we do not have firm plans to utilize all of our satellite capacity. In addition, especially in light of the potential continued lack of demand for satellite services as a result of sustained economic weakness, there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop the business opportunities we currently plan to pursue with this capacity. If we are unable to lease our excess satellite capacity to third parties, our margins would be negatively impacted and we may be required to record impairments related to our satellites. The failure to adequately anticipate the need for transponder capacity or the inability to obtain transponder capacity for our Hughes segment could harm our results of operations. Our Hughes segment has made substantial contractual commitments for transponder capacity based on our existing customer contracts and backlog, as well as anticipated future business, to the extent our existing broadband customers are not expected to utilize our SPACEWAY 3 satellite. If future demand does not meet our expectations, we will be committed to maintaining excess transponder capacity for which we will have no, or insufficient, revenues to cover our costs, which would have a negative impact on our margins and results of operations. We have transponder capacity commitments, generally for two to five year terms, with third parties to cover different geographical areas or support different applications and features; therefore, we may not be able to quickly or easily adjust our capacity to changes in demand. If we only purchase transponder capacity based on existing contracts and bookings, capacity for certain types of coverage in the future that cannot be readily served by SPACEWAY 3 may be unavailable to us, and we may not be able to satisfy certain needs of our customers, which could result in a loss of possible new business and could negatively impact the margins earned for those services. At present, until the launch and operation of additional satellites, there is limited availability of capacity on the Ku-band frequencies in North America. In addition, the FSS industry has seen consolidation in the past decade, and today, the three main FSS providers in North America and a number of smaller regional providers own and operate the current satellites that are available for our capacity needs. The failure of any of these FSS providers to replace existing satellite assets at the end of their useful lives or a downturn in their industry as a whole could reduce or interrupt the Ku-band capacity available to us. If we are not able to renew our capacity leases at economically viable rates, or if capacity is not available due to any problems of the FSS providers, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected, to the extent SPACEWAY 3 and EchoStar XVII/Jupiter are unable to satisfy the associated demand. If our products contain defects, we could be subject to significant costs to correct such defects and our product and network service contracts could be delayed or cancelled, which could adversely affect our revenues. The products and the networks we deploy are highly complex, and some may contain defects when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released, despite extensive testing and our quality control procedures. In addition, many of our products and network services are designed to interface with our customers’ existing networks, each of which has different specifications and utilizes multiple protocol standards. Our products and services must interoperate with the other products and services within our customers’ networks, as well as with future products and services that might be added to these networks, to meet our customers’ requirements. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in our products or network services could result in: (i) additional costs to correct such defects; (ii) cancellation of orders; (iii) a reduction in revenue backlog; (iv) product returns or recalls; (v) diversion of our resources; and (vi) the issuance of credits to customers and other losses to us, our customers or end users. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and services and loss of sales, which would harm our reputation and our business and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We may face difficulties in accurately assessing and collecting contributions towards the Universal Service Fund. As a provider of telecommunications in the U.S., we are presently required to contribute a fee, which is based upon a percentage of our revenues from telecommunications services, to the Universal Service Fund to support mechanisms that subsidize the provision of services to low-income consumers, high-cost areas, schools, libraries and rural health 33 Table of Contents care providers. This percentage is set each calendar quarter by the FCC. Current FCC rules permit us to pass this Universal Service Fund contribution onto our customers. Because our customer contracts often include both telecommunications services, which create such support obligations, and other goods and services, which do not, it can be difficult to determine which portion of our revenues forms the basis for this contribution and the amount that we can recover from our customers. If the FCC, which oversees the support mechanisms, or a court or other governmental entity were to determine that we computed our contribution obligation incorrectly or passed the wrong amount onto our customers, we could become subject to additional assessments, liabilities, or other financial penalties. In addition, the FCC is considering substantial changes to its Universal Service Fund contribution and distribution rules. These changes could impact our future contribution obligations and those of third parties that provide communication services to our business. Any such change to the Universal Service Fund contribution rules could adversely affect our costs of providing service to our customers. In addition, changes to the Universal Service Fund distribution rules could intensify the competition we face by offering subsidies to competing firms and/or technologies. Our foreign operations expose us to regulatory risks and restrictions not present in our domestic operations. Our operations outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 19.3%, 14.5% and 15.9% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect our foreign operations to continue to represent a significant portion of our business. We have operations in Brazil, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, the Russian Federation, South Africa, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and China, among other nations. Over the last 20 years, Hughes Communications has sold products in over 100 countries. Our foreign operations involve varying degrees of risks and uncertainties inherent in doing business abroad. Such risks include: · Complications in complying with restrictions on foreign ownership and investment and limitations on repatriation. We may not be permitted to own our operations in some countries and may have to enter into partnership or joint venture relationships. Many foreign legal regimes restrict our repatriation of earnings to the U.S. from our subsidiaries and joint venture entities. Applicable law in such foreign countries may also limit our ability to distribute or access our assets in certain circumstances. In such event, we will not have access to the cash flow and assets of our joint ventures. · Difficulties in following a variety of foreign laws and regulations, such as those relating to data content retention, privacy and employee welfare. Our international operations are subject to the laws of many different jurisdictions that may differ significantly from U.S. law. For example, local political or intellectual property law may hold us responsible for the data that is transmitted over our network by our customers. Also, other nations have more stringent employee welfare laws that guarantee perquisites that we must offer. Compliance with these laws may lead to increased operations costs, loss of business opportunities or violations that result in fines or other penalties. · Restrictions on space station landing rights/coordination. Satellite market access and landing rights are dependent on the national regulations established by foreign governments, including, but not limited to: (a) national coordination requirements and registration requirements for satellites; and (b) reporting requirements of national telecommunications regulators with respect to service provision and satellite performance. · Financial and legal constraints and obligations. Operating pursuant to foreign licenses subjects us to certain financial constraints and obligations, including, but not limited to: (a) tax liabilities that may or may not be dependent on revenues; (b) the burden of creating and maintaining additional facilities and staffing in foreign jurisdictions; and (c) legal regulations requiring that we make available “free” satellite capacity for national social programming, which may impact our revenue. · Significant competition in our international markets. Outside North America, we have traditionally competed for hardware and services sales primarily in Europe, Brazil and India and focused only on hardware revenues in other regions. In Europe, we face intense competition which is not expected to abate in the near future. 34 Table of Contents · Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. We conduct our business and incur cost in the local currency of a number of the countries in which we operate. Accordingly, our results of operations are reported in the relevant local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars at the applicable currency exchange rate for inclusion in our financial statements. These fluctuations in currency exchange rates have affected, and may in the future affect, revenue, profits and cash earned on international sales. In addition, we sell our products and services and acquire supplies and components from countries that historically have been, and may continue to be, susceptible to recessions or currency devaluation. · Greater exposure to the possibility of economic instability, the disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances, expropriation or war. As we conduct operations throughout the world, we could be subject to regional or national economic downturns or instability, labor or political disturbances or conflicts of various sizes. Any of these disruptions could detrimentally affect our sales in the affected region or country or lead to damage to, or expropriation of, our property or danger to our personnel. · Competition with large or state-owned enterprises and/or regulations that effectively limit our operations and favor local competitors. Many of the countries in which we conduct business have traditionally had state owned or state granted monopolies on telecommunications services that favor an incumbent service provider. We face competition from these favored and entrenched companies in countries that have not deregulated. The slower pace of deregulation in these countries, particularly in Asia and Latin America, has adversely affected the growth of our business in these regions. · Customer credit risks. Customer credit risks are exacerbated in foreign operations because there is often little information available about the credit histories of customers in the foreign countries in which we operate. Although we expect that the Hughes Acquisition will benefit us, those expected benefits may not occur because of the complexity of integration and other challenges. We acquired Hughes Communications on June 8, 2011. Achieving the expected benefits of the Hughes Acquisition will depend in part on our ability to integrate Hughes Communications’ operations, technology and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. We have incurred substantial direct transaction costs associated with the Hughes Acquisition, and will incur additional costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations. The integration of Hughes Communications is complex, time-consuming, and expensive, and may disrupt our business or result in the loss of our or Hughes Communications’ customers or key employees or the diversion of our management’s attention. In addition, the integration process may strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. This may result in the diversion of management and financial resources from our principal core business objectives. There can be no assurance that the integration will be completed as quickly as we expect or that the Hughes Acquisition will achieve its expected benefits. Moreover, issues arising from the integration of EchoStar and Hughes Communications, including, among others, differences in corporate culture, may affect our ability to retain technically skilled employees of either company. If we are unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, we may not be able to respond to changes in technologies and, as a result, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. If the total costs of the Hughes Acquisition exceed estimates or if the expected benefits of the Hughes Acquisition do not exceed the total costs of the Hughes Acquisition, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Other Risks We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network due to our common ownership and management. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between DISH Network and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between DISH Network and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: · Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We have certain overlap in directors and executive officers with DISH Network, which may lead to conflicting interests. Our Board of Directors includes persons who are members of the Board of Directors of DISH Network, including Charles W. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of DISH Network and us. The executive officers and the members of our Board of Directors who overlap with DISH Network have fiduciary duties to DISH Network’s shareholders. Therefore, these individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, there is potential for a conflict of interest when we or DISH Network look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, many of our directors and officers own DISH Network stock and options to purchase DISH Network stock, certain of which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off, including Mr. Ergen, who beneficially owns approximately 53.2% of the total equity (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and controls approximately 90.4% of the voting power of DISH Network (assuming no conversion of the Class B Common Stock). Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 4,245,151 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 2.0% of the total equity securities of DISH Network (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 1.6% of the total voting power of DISH Network. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and DISH Network. Furthermore, Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and Roger Lynch, Executive Vice President, Advanced Technologies, are employed by both DISH Network and us, and Paul W. Orban, our Corporate Controller is a DISH Network employee who provides us services pursuant to a management services agreement we entered into with DISH Network. · Intercompany agreements related to the Spin-off. We entered into agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other services, for which we pay DISH Network an amount equal to DISH Network’s cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by DISH Network for certain of our businesses. We also entered into certain commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are, among other things, obligated to sell digital set-top boxes and related equipment to DISH Network at specified prices. The terms of certain of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of DISH Network and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between DISH Network and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with DISH Network did not necessarily reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have agreed to. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. · Additional intercompany transactions. DISH Network or its affiliates have and will continue to enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between DISH Network and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of committee of the non-interlocking directors or in certain instances non-interlocking management, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. 36 Table of Contents · Competition for business opportunities. DISH Network retains its interests in various companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by our businesses. We may also compete with DISH Network when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We do not have any agreements with DISH Network that would prevent us from competing with each other. We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. On June 8, 2011, we completed the Hughes Acquisition. We are currently integrating policies, processes, people, technology and operations for the combined company. Management will continue to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting as we execute integration activities. Except as discussed above, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011. If in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: · a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share and a non-voting Class D; · a provision that authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; · a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock that would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We are controlled by one principal stockholder who is our Chairman. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 50.7% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and possesses approximately 75.6% of the total voting power. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of us excludes 8,734,250 shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 18.3% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts 37 Table of Contents into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 16.9% of our total voting power. Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our stockholders. As a result of Mr. Ergen’s voting power, we are a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, are not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 38 Table of Contents 