Risk Factors Investing in our ADSs involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, as well as in our press releases and in other filings we may make with the SEC from time to time, before making any investment decision. Any of the following risks and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The market price of our ADSs could decline due to any of these risks and uncertainties, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Disruptions in the financial and credit markets and economic downturns may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers. Decreased capital and maintenance spending could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, such as the events that occurred in the second half of 2008 and have continued into and through 2009 and the present, may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future, which could result in the delay or cancellation of projects or capital programs on which our business depends. In addition, continuing weakness or further deterioration in regional economies or the world economy could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers and end users. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets or to weakening economies will restore confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, or their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. Our revenues fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause volatility in the trading price of our ADSs. Many factors have caused, and may continue to cause, our revenues to fluctuate significantly, including: • the recognition of a substantial portion of our software license revenues in the last month of a quarter due to the buying trends of our customers, which may result in increased volatility in quarterly revenues if customers decide to defer or cancel orders or implementations, particularly large orders or implementations, from one quarter to the next; 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the gain or loss of any significant customer; • the number, timing and significance of new product announcements and releases by us or our competitors; • our ability to acquire or develop products, independently or through strategic relationships with third parties, or introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis, which may result in a customer delaying the execution of a contract or, for contracts that include a new software release as an element of the contract, the deferral of revenue recognition until such release; • reductions in the historical rate at which opportunities in our pipeline develop into license agreements; • patterns of capital spending and changes in budgeting cycles by our customers. For example, in 2008 and continuing through 2009 and the present, capital spending for enterprise software applications was negatively impacted by challenging economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • changes in the pricing and the mix of our products and services; • seasonal variations in our sales cycle; • the level of product and price competition; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • changes in personnel and related costs. In addition, we expect that a substantial portion of our enterprise software application revenues will continue to be derived from renewals of maintenance contracts from customers of our software applications. These maintenance contracts typically expire on an annual basis, and if they are not renewed, the timing of cash collections from related revenues will vary from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some customers are reluctant to make large purchases before they have had the opportunity to evaluate the performance of our software applications in their business and opt to purchase our products in stages or subject to certain conditions. Additional purchases, if any, may follow only if the software performs as expected. To the extent the number of customers who opt to purchase in stages or subject to conditions remains significant or increases, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. Our future revenues depend in part on our installed customer base continuing to license additional products, renew customer support agreements and purchase additional services. Recently, our installed customer base has generated increasing proportions of our license, support and service revenues. In addition, our success depends significantly on our ability to cross-sell products to our installed base of customers. Our ability to cross-sell new products may depend in part on the degree to which new products have been integrated with our existing applications, which may vary with the timing of new product acquisitions or releases. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license additional products or contract for additional support or other services. Customer support agreements are generally renewable annually at a customer’s option, and there are generally no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Customer support revenues are primarily influenced by the number and size of new support contracts sold in connection with software licenses and the renewal rate (both pricing and participation) of existing support contracts. If our customers decide to cancel their support agreements or fail to license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of their support agreements, revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our service and support offerings, and our failure to offer high quality service could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. Our customers depend upon our customer service and support staff to resolve issues relating to our products. High-quality support services are critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we fail to provide high-quality support on an ongoing basis, our customers may react negatively and we may be materially and adversely affected in our ability to sell additional products to these customers. This could also damage our reputation and prospects with potential customers. Our failure to maintain high-quality support services could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully grow our direct and indirect sales channels, our ability to organically grow our business will be harmed, which may lead to decreased revenue growth and adversely affect our profitability. To date, we have sold our products primarily through our direct sales force, particularly in North America. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part on recruiting, training and retaining direct sales personnel and expanding our indirect distribution channels. These indirect channels include value-added resellers, or VARs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms. We may experience difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified sales personnel and in establishing third-party relationships with VARs, OEMs, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms, in part because our products are designed for certain targeted vertical industries, which means we seek persons with significant experience and expertise in these markets who may be difficult to locate and retain. If we are unable to successfully grow our direct and indirect sales channels, our ability to organically grow our business will be harmed. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that the third parties through which we indirectly sell our products and services will not devote sufficient time, attention and resources to learning our products, markets and potential customers, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and the reputation of our products in the market. Our strategy of developing and acquiring products for specific industry segments, or targeted vertical industries, may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategy focuses on the development of industry-specific enterprise software applications. This strategy may not be successful due to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • companies in our targeted vertical industries may not select our products; • many of our targeted vertical industries are subject to their own economic cycles, regulatory considerations and other factors beyond our control. For example, the homebuilding and real estate vertical industry is sensitive to interest rate movements and general economic conditions, and the healthcare vertical industry is subject to significant governmental regulations; • some of our products have only been recently introduced, so they have neither a significant installed base of users nor significant recognition in their targeted vertical industry; • development of industry-specific products is time-consuming and requires significant expertise; • we may experience difficulty in recruiting sales, business and technical personnel who have experience in a particular targeted vertical industry; • due to resource constraints, we have a limited number of developers who can focus on product development for our targeted vertical industries; and • if we decide to devote our limited resources to a targeted vertical industry, such as by dedicating a sales representative to a particular market, then that resource may not be available to focus on sales to our other targeted vertical industries. If our strategy of developing products for specific vertical industries is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In recent years, we have depended on acquisitions to increase our revenues. We may not be successful in increasing our revenues through organic growth, which may result in decreased revenues and profitability. Our ability to achieve organic growth in our businesses is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: • our investments in sales and marketing, research and development and personnel training could require significant resources and may not ultimately prove successful in generating organic growth; • we may not be successful in introducing our products and services into new and emerging markets, such as China and India; and • our strategy to sell new products to our existing customer base, which has expanded through acquisitions, may not be successful or as profitable as we expect. Our customers sometimes do not find our other enterprise software applications to be as attractive. In addition, the revenues generated are often less than that of an independent third-party software supplier. The lower revenues are the result of the customer viewing the purchase of the cross-sold software product as only a module to its existing enterprise software solution, rather than a complete stand-alone software product and, therefore, being less willing to pay the full market price for the product than if the sale had been made by an independent third party. In recent years, we depended more on acquisitions to increase our revenues than on the organic growth of our businesses. Our inability to achieve organic growth in our businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have acquired several companies during the past several years and intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in successful acquisitions. Furthermore, we may be unable to integrate our past or future acquisitions successfully, which could result in increased costs, divert management’s attention and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic acquisitions that can, among other things, broaden our customer base, provide enhanced geographic presence and provide new and complementary technical and commercial capabilities. Our growth strategy also involves the acquisition of, and investments in, new technologies, businesses, products and services, as well as the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we may not currently operate. We believe that attractive acquisition candidates currently exist in our target markets, and we continuously consider a number of transactions, some of which would be material to our operations and financial condition if consummated. We enter into discussions with other companies and assess opportunities on an on-going basis. Any such acquisitions or joint ventures, if consummated, may be funded through the use of proceeds from our initial public offering, operating cash flows, the incurrence of debt or issuance of our class A ordinary shares. Our ability to complete future acquisitions depends upon a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and secure financing. We may incur significant costs arising from our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in the successful completion of acquisitions. Acquisitions and investments expose us to many potential risks and challenges, including: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities or expenses; • accounting charges; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies; • the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with our or the acquired company’s employees, users, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Furthermore, we also may be unable to integrate our past or future acquisitions successfully and our acquisitions and investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In order to realize the benefits anticipated from each acquisition, we need to conform the operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies between our corporate headquarters and the businesses we have acquired. In some instances we may acquire or invest in new technologies, businesses, products and services, or create a strategic alliance in areas in which we may not currently operate. Accordingly, acquisition integration has required, and we expect that it will continue to require, significant attention from our management and could require our management to develop expertise in new areas and manage new business relationships, which may divert management’s attention, increase transaction costs and reduce employee morale. Our ability to integrate past and future acquisitions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to retain and integrate key employees and manage employee morale; • our ability to integrate or combine different corporate cultures; • our ability to effectively integrate products, research and development, sales, marketing, accounting and finance functions and other support operations; • our ability to maintain focus on our day-to-day operations; • the discovery of unanticipated liabilities or other contingencies that we did not identify during the course of our due diligence investigations; • potential claims filed by terminated employees or contractors; and • our ability to adapt to local market conditions and business practices. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to complete strategic transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. Our failure to complete strategic transactions or to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international acquisitions and investments may expose us to additional regulatory and political risks, and could negatively impact our business prospects. Several of the acquisitions and strategic transactions we have completed are located outside of the U.S. Our expansion throughout international markets exposes us to the following risks, any of which could negatively impact our business prospects: • adverse changes in regulatory requirements, including export restrictions or controls; • potential adverse tax and regulatory consequences; • differences in accounting practices and investment requirements; • different cultures which may be relatively less accepting of our business; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations; • differences and inconsistencies in legal interpretations, laws, rules and regulations; • greater legal uncertainty and difficulty in complying with such laws and regulations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • changes in the general economic and investment climate affecting valuations and perception of our business sectors; 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • political instability and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • different seasonal trends in business activities. We dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development activities and our failure to successfully develop, market or sell new products or adopt new technology platforms could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and sustain our profitability. Our enterprise software applications compete in a market characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology and frequent new product introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or respond to rapid technological changes in our industry. In addition, the introduction of new products or updated versions of existing products has inherent risks, including, but not limited to, risks concerning: • product quality, including the possibility of software defects, which could result in claims against us or the inability to sell our software products; • the fit of the new products and features with a customer’s needs; • the need to educate our sales, marketing and consulting personnel to work with the new products and features, which may strain our resources and lengthen sales cycles; • market acceptance of initial product releases; • marketing effectiveness; and • the accuracy of research or assumptions about the nature and extent of customer demand. In addition, we may need to adopt newer technology platforms for our enterprise software products as older technologies become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making the transition to new technology platforms for our products in the future. We may be unable to adapt to the new technology, may encounter errors resulting from a significant rewrite of the software code for our products or may be unable to complete the transition in a timely manner. In addition, as we transition to newer technology platforms for our products, our customers may encounter difficulties in the upgrade process, delay decisions about upgrading our products or review their alternatives with another supplier or competitor. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we commit substantial resources to developing new software products and services, if the markets for these new products or services do not develop as anticipated, or demand for our products and services in these markets does not materialize or materializes later than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient offsetting or resulting revenues, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Developing, enhancing and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our future plans include significant additional investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, our research and development expense was $22.8 million, or approximately 9.6%, $25.9 million, or approximately 10.7%, and $18.0 million, or approximately 8.8%, of our total revenues, respectively. In addition, as we or our competitors introduce new or enhanced products, the demand for our older products and older versions of such products is likely to decline. If we are unable to provide continued improvements in the functionality of our older products or move customers with our older products to our newer products, maintenance and license revenues from older products may decline, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The market for enterprise software applications and services is highly competitive, and any failure by us to compete effectively in such a market could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The business information systems industry in general, and the enterprise software industry in particular, are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition, larger technical staffs and a larger installed customer base than we do. A number of companies offer products that are similar to our products and target the same markets as we do. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with our products and services or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It is also possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share. Accordingly, our current or potential competitors may develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant competitors or adapt more quickly than we can to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our strategy in this market. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Future revenue growth depends in part upon our ability to adapt to technological change and successfully introduce new and enhanced products and services. The Software as a Service (SaaS) industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and frequent new product introductions. As we continue to grow our SaaS and other offerings, we must continue to innovate and develop new products and features to meet changing customer needs and attract and retain talented software developers. We need to continue to develop our skills, tools and capabilities to capitalize on existing and emerging technologies. In some cases, we may expend a significant amount of resources and management attention on products or services that do not ultimately succeed in their markets. We have encountered difficulty in launching new products and services in the past. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new products and services may not succeed, our revenues and earnings may be harmed and our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Interruptions or delays in service from our third-party data center hosting facilities could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve certain of our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. As we continue to add data centers and add capacity in our existing data centers, we may move or transfer our data and our customers’ data. Despite precautions taken during this process, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service. Further, any damage to, or failure of, our systems generally could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. As part of our current disaster recovery arrangements, our production environment and all of our customers’ data is currently replicated in near real-time in a facility. Features added through acquisitions are temporarily served through alternate facilities. We do not control the operation of any of these facilities, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. Even with the disaster recovery arrangements, our service could be interrupted and our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our hosting, collection, use and retention of personal customer information create risk that may harm our business. A number of our businesses collect, use and retain personal customer information, including credit card numbers, bank account numbers and passwords, personal and business financial data, social security numbers and other payroll information. We may also develop new business models that use personal information, or data derived from 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements personal information, in innovative and novel ways. In addition, we collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of our business. Some of this personal customer and employee information is held and some transactions are executed by third parties. In addition, as several of our products and services are Web based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing. We and our vendors use commercially available security technologies to protect transactions and personal information. We use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information. However, a third party may be able to circumvent these security and business measures, and errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information may result in a breach of customer or employee privacy or theft of assets, which may require notification under applicable data privacy regulations. We employ contractors and temporary employees who may have access to the personal information of customers and employees or who may execute transactions in the normal course of their duties. It is possible that one or more of these individuals may circumvent our controls, resulting in a security breach. The ability to execute transactions and the possession and use of personal information in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require notification to customers or employees of a security breach, restrict our use of personal information and hinder our ability to acquire new customers or market to existing customers. As our business continues to expand to new industry segments that may be more highly regulated for privacy and data security, and to countries outside the U.S. that have more strict data protection laws, our compliance requirements and costs may increase and our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred losses in prior periods and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred losses in prior periods and we may not be able to achieve or sustain operating profitability or net profitability. We may incur operating and net losses in the future due to several factors, including: • risks relating to our past and future acquisitions, including the continuing financial effects of past acquisitions such as intangible asset amortization, equity-based compensation and deferred tax expense; and • increased expenditures related to our previously acquired businesses as we seek to increase organic growth, which may include increased sales and marketing costs, including costs associated with the expected expansion of our distribution and sales channels, and increased product development expenses. We base our budgeting decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. However, because many of our expenses are relatively fixed, we cannot quickly reduce spending in response to revenue growth that is lower than expected. As a result, in addition to the direct impact that declines in revenues would have on profitability, shortfalls in revenues compared to the estimated revenues used to plan operating expenses could result in significantly lower income or result in a greater loss than anticipated for any given period. If revenues do not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate or cannot be reduced accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. Our failure to effectively manage such growth could adversely affect our ability to earn profits. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our customers change and if our business expands, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our products and services and maintain and improve the quality of our products and services; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have entered into a $30 million four year credit facility and may incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. We have entered into a $30 million four year credit facility with Wells Fargo Capital Finance. In connection with the closing of this credit facility, we were required to request an advance of $15 million. We may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, for future acquisitions or expansion of our business, and, subject to certain conditions, up to $15.0 million under the credit facility may be provided by us to CDC Corporation. This debt may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of a portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. The credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and require us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the credit facility imposes limitations on our ability to transfer funds between us and certain of our subsidiaries, as well as between us and our ultimate parent, CDC Corporation, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition and those of our subsidiaries and affiliates. If we breach any of the covenants under our credit facility and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. Because we rely on local management for many of our localized businesses, our business may be materially and adversely affected if we cannot effectively manage local officers. As a global hybrid enterprise software provider of on-premise and cloud deployments, we have interests in companies in a wide variety of local markets, including the United States, Canada, Europe, Central and South America, Australia, China and other parts of Asia. As a result, we rely on our local management with limited oversight over these businesses. If we cannot effectively manage our local officers and management, or prevent them from acting in a manner contrary to our interests or failing to act at our direction, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We have been increasingly moving software development capabilities for our enterprise software applications to India and China which subjects us to risks that may result in certain staffing and management difficulties which, if not effectively addressed, could delay development of upgrades and new products that, in turn, could reduce revenues and net income and increase research and development costs. We have established a CRM-focused software development center in Bangalore, India and an ERP and SCM-focused software development center in Shanghai, China and Nanjing, China, respectively. Such off-shoring subjects us to various risks, including the following: • inability to hire sufficient qualified programmers and developers in these markets; • risks associated with turnover of programmers and developers, particularly where we have devoted significant time and resources to train such persons to be familiar with our enterprise software applications; • challenges related to the need to remotely manage developers and programmers in India and China, particularly when the persons most familiar with the needs of the customer and the desired new functionality and features are not located in India and China; • language and other communications barriers, particularly with software development in China; and • time zone differences, which make communicating with persons in India and China more difficult. If we are unable to adequately staff and manage our offshore research and development operations we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from this initiative. In addition, other events and circumstances, such as difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may occur which could result in us not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property as important to our business. Unauthorized use of intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may reduce our revenues, devalue our brands and property, and harm our reputation. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our key employees and certain of our licensors, partners, manufacturers, distributors and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and expensive, as are the steps necessary to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our licensed technology. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in many industries in China and certain other countries are uncertain and still evolving and may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. In particular, software piracy in China and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business has been an issue of significant concern for many software publishers. Moreover, we may not prevail in any litigation that we undertake to enforce our intellectual property rights, and such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products and services could be found to infringe on the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. For example, in April 2008, SFA Systems filed a claim in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against defendants NetSuite, Inc., CDC Corporation and CDC Software Inc. alleging that our MarketFirst software, which is related to certain intellectual property we acquired in our acquisition of Saratoga Systems in April 2007, infringes a patent owned by SFA Systems through assignment. The plaintiff sought a permanent injunction against defendants, damages, costs, expenses, interest, attorneys’ fees and other restitutional remedies. Although this matter was ultimately resolved, we were required to expend significant time and resources with respect to this matter, and generally, substantial expenses in investigating and defending against third-party infringement claims are incurred, regardless of their merit. We cannot assure you that any similar future matters may be resolved in a manner that would not have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights, incur additional costs to license or develop alternative technology and be forced to pay fines and damages, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. If we lose the services of key employees, it may be costly and time-consuming for us to locate other personnel with the required skills and experience. Our success depends on the continued efforts of our board members, our senior management and our technical, research and development, services and support, marketing and sales personnel. These persons may terminate their association or employment with us at any time. We have experienced changes in our senior management for a variety of reasons, including restructuring, medical reasons, retirement, and resignations to pursue other career opportunities. Loss of the services of key members of senior management or experienced personnel can be disruptive and causes uncertainty. In particular, we depend upon the services of Mr. Peter Yip, our chief executive officer, Bruce Cameron, our president, Matthew Lavelle, our chief financial officer and other members of our management team. Mr. Yip took a leave of absence for medical reasons between February 2005 and April 2006. During that time, two other people who served as our chief executive officer and president resigned. While Mr. Yip believes that he has recovered enough to serve as our chief executive officer, we cannot assure his continued service. The process of hiring employees with the combination of skills and attributes required to implement our business strategy can be extremely competitive and time-consuming. We compete for a limited number of qualified individuals with more established companies with greater resources that may offer more attractive compensation or employment conditions. As a result, we may be unable to retain or integrate existing personnel or identify and hire additional qualified personnel. Our ultimate parent corporation, CDC Corporation, determined that material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2006 and 2007 as a result of, among other things, its inability to attract and retain sufficient resources with the appropriate level of expertise in the accounting and finance departments of our organization to ensure appropriate application of U.S. GAAP, particularly in the areas of accounting for income taxes and the accounting for certain of our non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of CDC Corporation’s financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005. During 2008, CDC Corporation remediated all material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting that existed during 2006 and 2007. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements An inability to attract or retain additional qualified senior managers or personnel in a timely manner, or the health, family or other personal problems of key personnel could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. We adopted the 2009 Stock Incentive Plan in March 2009. Under such equity incentive plan, we may issue options or other awards to purchase up to 3.75 million class A ordinary shares. During 2009 and 2010, we granted an aggregate of 1,145,084 options and 10,000 stock appreciation rights, having a weighted average exercise price of $8.84. As a result of these grants under the plan, we have incurred significant share-based compensation expenses, and may continue to incur significant compensation expenses in future periods. The amount of these expenses are, and with respect to future awards, will be, based on the fair value of the share-based awards. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. We have also received approval from our shareholders, at an extraordinary general meeting held in May 2010, to amend our incentive plan to permit us to cancel and re-grant awards without shareholder approval. Any such cancellations and re-grants will increase the amount of expense we will incur. We cannot assure you that employee share options or other share-based compensation we may grant in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. A passive foreign investment company is a foreign company with predominantly investment income or whose assets are primarily intended to generate investment income. Although we believe that we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our 2008 and 2009 fiscal years, nor for our current taxable year or in the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance in this regard. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets. Because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our ADSs, which is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year as a result of the composition of our income or assets. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held ADSs certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. For more information on the tax consequences to you if we were treated as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E., Additional Information — Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences — U.S. Holders — Status as a PFIC.” Risks Relating to Our International Operations A large part of our business is international and, as a consequence, there are a number of factors beyond our control associated with international operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Approximately 47%, 45% and 48% of our total revenues in 2007, 2008, and 2009 were derived from customers outside of North America. We anticipate that revenues from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues in the future, particularly as we intend to expand into targeted emerging markets, such as China, Russia, Brazil and India. Our operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including: • changes in, or interpretations of, U.S. or foreign law that may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers; • hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown or prohibited by applicable law; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • adverse changes in regulatory requirements, including the imposition of restrictive trade policies, including changes in export restrictions; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • worldwide political conditions and political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions by foreign governments; • difficulty in staffing and managing our operations; • different seasonal and other trends in business activities; • differences in cultures which may be less accepting of our business; • differences in accounting practices and investment requirements; • longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings and compliance with such laws, rules and regulations; • having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers with products and services; and • adverse determinations or findings by applicable export control authorities restricting our ability to export goods and services. We are required to comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations. Noncompliance with those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The export and re-export of certain of our products to, and the provision of our services to customers in, certain countries are subject to U.S. export control laws and related regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), 15 C.F.R. Parts 730 et seq., administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Accordingly, our products and services may be subject to pre-export filings; licensing requirements for certain restricted countries, parties and end users; post-export reporting; and documentation and other requirements. Although we strive to comply with applicable export requirements, we have advised the U.S. Department of Commerce of potential violations of the U.S. export control laws and regulations involving the sale of software to a customer in Syria by a reseller. We believe this sale was isolated and remediable through strengthened internal controls and procedures. Violations of export control regulations can lead to administrative, civil monetary or criminal penalties. Based on the information available at this time, we do not believe that the matters we have disclosed will result in material sanctions or penalties, and accordingly have recorded an accrual that is not material to our financial condition or results of operations. However, we cannot assure you that the U.S. Department of Commerce will not pursue penalties for any violations ultimately found to have occurred or that any penalties will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A change in currency exchange rates could increase our costs relative to our revenues. Our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in a number of currencies, including Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Euros, renminbi, South Korean won, Swedish Kronas and U.S. dollars. However, our quarterly and annual financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. In the future, we may also conduct business in additional foreign countries and generate revenues, expenses and liabilities in other foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies and the related interest rate fluctuations. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. Any hedging policies implemented by us may not be successful, and the cost of these hedging techniques may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Relating to Our Separation from, and Continuing Relationship with, CDC Corporation We are a newly incorporated company and we have a limited history of operating as a stand-alone company. We may encounter difficulties in making the changes necessary to operate as a stand-alone company, and we may incur greater costs as a stand-alone company that may materially and adversely affect our results. We were formed in March 2009. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2009 we operated a business unit of our ultimate parent company, CDC Corporation. CDC Corporation and its subsidiaries currently assist us in performing some corporate functions, including legal, mergers and acquisitions, risk management, corporate finance, tax, accounting and treasury. Except as contemplated by our Services Agreement with CDC Corporation, CDC Corporation no longer has any obligation to provide these functions to us. The Services Agreement became effective on the closing of our initial public offering in August 2009, and has an initial term expiring on December 31, 2019. Thereafter, the Services Agreement may be renewed automatically for successive two-year periods unless we or CDC Corporation elects not to renew the services by providing not less than 15 months’ advance written notice. CDC Corporation may terminate the agreement at any time it ceases to own at least 50% of the total voting power of our ordinary shares. Under the Services Agreement, we and CDC Corporation provide services to each other at prices reflecting the actual costs incurred by the entity providing such services, as long as the agreement remains in effect. Pursuant to an addendum to the Services Agreement executed in May 2010, certain additional services relating to strategic business consulting services, software implementation services, software operational support services, and customer education and training services are provided to us by CDC Corporation at a price equal to the costs incurred by CDC Corporation or its subsidiaries to provide these services plus an additional gross margin of 25%. We are required to first offer CDC Corporation the right to provide these additional services; however, in the event that CDC Corporation chooses not to exercise such right, we are entitled to contract with a third party for these services in order to fulfill our obligations to our customers. If the Services Agreement is terminated, we may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including costs, as favorable as those we receive from CDC Corporation. See “Item 10.C., Additional Information — Material Contracts” for more information on the services agreement. In addition, we may encounter difficulty modifying or maintaining the operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies that CDC Corporation had in place over our businesses prior to our becoming a stand-alone company. Several of our officers and directors provide services to, and devote significant amounts of their time to, our ultimate parent company, CDC Corporation, and its other subsidiaries, which may lead to conflicting demands on their time and attention. Some of our officers and directors provide services to, and devote significant amounts of their time to, our ultimate parent company, CDC Corporation and other subsidiaries. Peter Yip, one of our directors and our Chief Executive Officer, Donald Novajosky, our General Counsel and Secretary, and Matthew Lavelle, our Chief Financial Officer, are also officers and/or employees of CDC Corporation and/or others of its subsidiaries. Raymond Ch’ien, John Clough, Simon Kwong Chi Wong and Mr. Yip, who are members of our Board of Directors, also serve as officers and/or directors of CDC Corporation and/or others of its subsidiaries. In the past our CEO, CFO and General Counsel have allocated between 50% to 75% of their time to CDC Corporation and its other subsidiaries. In the future those officers are expected to devote the majority of their time to the management of our affairs, subject to variations from period to period due to particular circumstances. As a result, demands for the time and attention of our officers and directors from our company and CDC Corporation and its other subsidiaries may conflict from time to time. None of our officers and directors are obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ responsibilities to other CDC Corporation affiliates were to require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affiliates in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs, which may have a negative impact on our ability to implement our business plans and strategies. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our historical financial information may not be representative of our results as an independent company. For periods prior to our initial public offering in August 2009, our combined and consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, assume that we had existed as a separate legal entity for such financial periods presented and owned the subsidiaries transferred to us by CDC Software International from the later of their date of incorporation or acquisition. Our combined and consolidated financial statements for such periods prior to our initial public offering, do not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had our business been a stand-alone company during the periods presented. As a public company, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, a significantly higher level of executive compensation, legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a wholly owned component of CDC Corporation. Furthermore, our combined and consolidated financial statements cannot be used to forecast or predict our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we do not adequately maintain and evolve our financial reporting and management systems and our internal controls, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed and we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could result in harm to our business, loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting and cause the price of our ordinary shares or ADSs to decline. Our ability to execute our business plan and implement our growth strategy requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively and support our growth in the future. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures and controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Moreover, in order to comply with our obligations as a public company under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we must enhance and maintain our internal controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. We are in the process of refining and enhancing our internal controls in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments starting with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2010. Any failure to implement effective controls could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Our ultimate parent corporation, CDC Corporation, identified material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 and 2007. If CDC Corporation identifies new material weaknesses our ability to report timely and accurate financial information could be materially and adversely affected. In connection with the audit of its consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, CDC Corporation and its independent registered public accounting firm concluded that material weaknesses existed in CDC Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2006 and 2007. In connection with the audit of CDC Corporation’s consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008, CDC Corporation and its independent registered public accounting firm concluded that the material weaknesses that existed in CDC Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007 have been remediated. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses that existed at December 31, 2007 were noted in the financial statement close and reporting processes, income taxes and treasury management. CDC Corporation also determined that material weaknesses in its internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2005 and 2006 as a result of, among other things, its inability to attract and retain sufficient resources with the appropriate level of expertise in the accounting and finance departments of its organization to ensure appropriate application of GAAP, particularly in the areas of accounting for income taxes, foreign currency translation adjustments related to goodwill and intangible assets and the accounting for certain of our non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of CDC Corporation’s financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The primary cause of the material weaknesses was lack of sufficient personnel in each of these areas with appropriate expertise to ensure proper accounting and treatment in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. CDC Corporation’s management has remediated its material weaknesses by taking the following steps: • implementing standard accounting policies related to estimates involving significant management judgments, as well as other financial reporting areas. The new policies are intended to focus on ensuring appropriate review and approval, define minimum documentation requirements, establish objective guidelines to minimize the degree of judgment in the determination of certain accruals, enforce consistent reporting practices, and enable effective account reconciliation, trend analyses, and exception reporting capabilities. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • hiring a VP of Tax, as well as additional tax personnel, to perform internal control procedures related to income taxes which had previously not been performed due to insufficient qualified personnel; • continuing to consolidate CDC Corporation’s entities into geographical centers to leverage its technical accounting resources and to reduce the complexity in CDC Corporation’s month end consolidation process by eliminating duplicative accounting processes and to leverage the use of a common general ledger and financial reporting system; and • improving quality control reviews within the accounting function to ensure account analyses and reconciliations are completed accurately, timely, and with proper management review. We cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting will not be identified by CDC Corporation in the future. If the control deficiencies that have been identified recur, or if we or CDC Corporation identify additional deficiencies or fail to implement new or improved controls successfully in a timely manner, we may be unable to issue timely and accurate financial reports and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, and such conclusion could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, a significantly higher level of legal, accounting and other expenses than we did as a wholly owned component of CDC Corporation. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. The terms of our separation from CDC Corporation, the related agreements and other transactions with CDC Corporation were determined by CDC Corporation and may be less favorable to us than we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. Transactions and agreements entered into between us and CDC Corporation present potential conflicts between our interests and those of CDC Corporation and are not the result of arms’ length negotiations. These transactions and agreements include agreements related to the separation of our business from CDC Corporation that provide for, among other things, the terms of our various interim and ongoing relationships, as described under “Item 7.B., Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Intercompany Agreements.” Because the terms of our separation from CDC Corporation and the related transactions and agreements were determined by CDC Corporation, the terms may be less favorable to us than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party. In some cases, the terms of such transactions and agreements may be more favorable than the terms we could have obtained from an unaffiliated third party, and we may not be able replace such terms with as favorable terms when such transactions and agreements expire. In addition, because CDC Corporation continues to control us, it could cause us to amend these agreements on terms that may be less favorable to us than the current terms of the agreements. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflict, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. Our ultimate parent corporation, CDC Corporation, contends that our initial public offering in August 2009 constituted a “qualified initial public offering” under the terms of its 3.75% Senior Exchangeable Convertible Notes due 2011, or Notes, and that it is not currently required to redeem up to $41.2 million in aggregate principal amount of Notes held by non-affiliates of CDC Corporation, plus accrued and default interest. CDC Corporation is involved in litigation with the last remaining non-affiliated holder of its outstanding Notes, which may indirectly have an adverse impact on our results of operations or the trading price of our ADSs. In November 2006, our ultimate parent, CDC Corporation, issued $168 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Exchangeable Convertible Notes due 2011, or the Notes. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Notes and the Note Purchase Agreement related thereto originally provided that, if neither CDC Software International, our direct parent, nor CDC Games International is able to complete a “qualified initial public offering,” or qualified IPO, prior to November 13, 2009, holders would have the option to require CDC Corporation to redeem the notes at a redemption price of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest, calculated at the rate of 12.5% per annum applied retroactively from November 13, 2006 to the date of redemption. As of December 31, 2009, a subsidiary of CDC Corporation, CDC Delaware Corp. was the holder of $124.8 million in principal amount, or 75.2% of the total aggregate amount outstanding of Notes, and Evolution CDC SPV Ltd., Evolution Master Fund Ltd., SPC, Segregated Portfolio M and E1 Fund Ltd., or Evolution, were the holders of an aggregate of $41.2 million, or 24.8% of the total aggregate amount outstanding of Notes. On November 11, 2009, CDC Delaware executed an Amendment No. 1 to Notes and Note Purchase Agreement that amended the Notes and the related Note Purchase Agreement to: (i) amend the definition of Qualified IPO to provide that CDC Software, CDC Games, or any of their respective subsidiaries can consummate a QIPO; and (ii) reduce the amount of proceeds necessary to achieve a QIPO, via the definition of Minimum IPO Amount, from $100.0 million to $40.0 million. As a result of these amendments, CDC Corporation believes that the holder redemption right provided in the Notes, which would have required CDC Corporation to pay, not later than December 16, 2009, an aggregate of approximately $52.0 million, consisting of the remaining principal outstanding on the Notes held by such non-affiliates together with accrued interest at the rate of 12.5% retroactive to the issue date of November 13, 2006, is both no longer exercisable by such holders, and is no longer of any force or effect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in November 2009, CDC Corporation received a notification from Evolution purporting to elect to exercise the holder redemption option under the Notes. Furthermore, on December 18, 2009, Evolution filed a notice of motion for summary judgment in lieu of complaint against CDC Corporation in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, demanding payment of the remaining principal portion of their Notes, together with accrued and retroactive interest. Evolution has also alleged default under the Notes, and is also seeking reimbursement of fees and costs in its lawsuit against CDC Corporation. On April 28, 2010, the New York Court denied Evolution’s motion for summary judgment. On March 2, 2010, CDC Corporation filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, against Evolution alleging breach of non-disclosure agreements, breach of the note purchase agreement relating to Notes, breach of the Notes, and tortious interference with business relations. The complaint seeks recovery of compensatory damages, interest, attorneys’ fees, litigation expenses and injunctive relief in excess of $295.0 million. CDC Corporation has advised us that it may request that we provide a loan, distribution or other funding to assist it in settling any obligations it may ultimately be deemed to have under the Notes. Furthermore, because we are a controlled company, CDC Corporation may require us to provide such loan, distribution or funding, which may not be on terms as favorable or beneficial to us as we might otherwise receive in an unrelated transaction with a non-affiliate. Additionally any funding that we may provide to CDC Corporation will reduce the amount of funds we have available for other purposes. Neither we nor any of our subsidiaries has pledged any of our or their assets or properties to secure the obligations of CDC Corporation under the Notes, nor have we or any of our subsidiaries guaranteed CDC Corporation’s performance of its obligations under the Notes. As a result, other than any loan, distribution or funding that we may be required to provide, we do not believe that any payment or other default by CDC Corporation under the Notes, or other definitive documents entered into at the issuance of the Notes, whether at maturity, upon exercise of the holders’ redemption rights, or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations or those of our subsidiaries. However, in the event that a default under the Notes results in insolvency proceedings against CDC Corporation, there can be no assurance that CDC Corporation will be able to perform its obligations to us under the Services Agreement or the Trademark License Agreement. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will not be named in current or future litigation resulting from any default. As a result, there can be no assurance that a default by CDC Corporation under the Notes will not materially and adversely impact our results of operations or the trading price of our ADSs. If any holders were to obtain judgments in their favor on their collection claims, they could then seek to execute those judgments against one or more of CDC Corporation’s assets, including CDC Corporation’s equity interest in us. In that case, if holders holding a sufficient principal amount of Notes were successful in executing on judgments in their favor, such holders might collectively be able to reduce CDC Corporation’s interest in us. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Conflicts of interest between CDC Corporation and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. Various conflicts of interest could arise between CDC Corporation and us. Some of our officers and directors may receive shares of our class A ordinary shares or options or stock appreciation rights relating to our securities; however, many of our officers and directors own, and we expect that they will continue to own, shares of CDC Corporation, or options or SARs relating to CDC Corporation’s securities, in an amount in excess of their ownership interests in us. In addition, our chief executive officer, Mr. Peter Yip, is also the chief executive officer and vice chairman of the board of directors of CDC Corporation. Asia Pacific Online Limited, owned by the spouse of Mr. Yip and by a trust established for the benefit of Mr. Yip’s children, is CDC Corporation’s largest shareholder, holding approximately 16.75% of its outstanding shares as of February 28, 2010. Mr. Yip has continued in his role as chief executive officer and executive vice chairman of the board of directors of CDC Corporation and, therefore, does not devote his time exclusively to us as our chief executive officer. Similarly, many of our directors serve on the board of directors of CDC Corporation (and/or its affiliates) and certain of our executive officers are also officers of CDC Corporation (and/or its affiliates) and also do not devote their time exclusively to us. Ownership interests of directors or officers of CDC Corporation or CDC Software International in our class A ordinary shares or ADSs, or service as either a director or officer of these companies, could create or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for CDC Corporation, CDC Software International and us. These decisions could, for example, relate to: • disagreements over corporate and strategic opportunities; • competition between us, CDC Software International and/or CDC Corporation; • management share ownership; • employee retention or recruiting; • our dividend policy; and • the services, arrangements and related pricing terms between us and CDC Corporation, including under our Services Agreement and Trademark License Agreement with CDC Corporation. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we enter into any new commercial arrangements with CDC Corporation while it remains our indirect controlling shareholder. Moreover, subject to applicable law, CDC Corporation and CDC Software International will not have a duty to refrain from engaging directly or indirectly in the same or similar business activities or lines of business as us. In addition, a majority our directors and officers are also directors and/or officers of CDC Corporation. Our directors or officers who provide, and receive incentive compensation for, services as a director or officer of CDC Software International or CDC Corporation may face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of time among us, CDC Software International and CDC Corporation or in fulfilling obligations to us, CDC Software International and CDC Corporation. Under Cayman Islands law our directors and officers generally owe us various fiduciary duties, including the duties of loyalty, honesty and good faith. This means that our officers and directors are obligated to act in our best interests, and not the best interests of other companies with which we may be affiliated or to individual shareholders and that our directors and officers are not entitled to consider the interests of another company, or a specific group of shareholders or creditors in determining whether or not to adopt a particular course of action. To reduce the risks faced by our officers and directors, our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association require that our Audit Committee review and approve any potential conflicts of interest, including transactions involving us and the following: • any shareholder owning an interest in the voting power of us or any subsidiary of ours that gives such shareholder significant influence over us or any subsidiary of ours; • any director or executive officer of us or any subsidiary of ours and any relative of such director or executive officer; 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • any person in which a substantial interest in the voting power of us is owned, directly or indirectly, by any person described in the points above or over which such a person is able to exercise significant influence; and • any affiliate (other than a subsidiary) of us. While our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, as well as the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules to which we are subject, contain provisions that may reduce the likelihood that we will be materially and adversely affected by such conflicts, we cannot assure you that such provisions will be effective. We may enter into business opportunity right of first refusal agreements with one or more affiliates of CDC Corporation, or entities formed by CDC Corporation or its subsidiaries, which could adversely affect our ability to pursue certain acquisition opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. Our indirect parent company, CDC Corporation and certain subsidiaries and affiliates thereof have formed, and may in the future form, entities for the purpose of acquiring businesses in industries and geographies that are similar to those in which we now, or may, in the future, operate. Furthermore, due to the potential conflicts of interest that could arise among CDC Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, including us, on the one hand, and such other entities on the other hand, and the officers and directors of the foregoing entities, we may enter into business opportunity right of first refusal agreements pursuant to which we may attempt to determine how potential business opportunities may be shared among us. These right of first refusal agreements would be of limited duration, and may not be enforceable against these other entities. Although we do not currently believe that any such subsidiary or affiliate formed by CDC Corporation or its affiliates would attempt to pursue any acquisition in the industries in which we currently operate, we cannot assure you that conflicts of interest and disputes will not occur in the future, and in such cases, that they will be resolved successfully in our favor. Because we may enter into, and be bound by, each of the right of first refusal agreements discussed above, our ability to pursue certain acquisition opportunities that would otherwise be available to us may be adversely affected. If we were unable to pursue an opportunity as a result of the restrictions contained in the right of first refusal agreements, our ability to grow our business through acquisition could be adversely affected. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. CDC Corporation holds more than 50% of our voting power. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. As such, we will be exempt from NASDAQ’s corporate governance Rule 5605(b), which means that: • a majority of our Board of Directors does not need to be comprised of “independent directors” as defined by the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules; and • our compensation committee and nominating committee do not need to be comprised solely of “independent directors”. Notwithstanding this exemption, five out of eight of our directors meet the definition of “independent director” under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. Although all of the directors who serve on our compensation committee are currently considered independent under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules, we cannot assure you that any of our directors will continue to satisfy these independence requirements in the future. Furthermore, Mr. Peter Yip, who serves as one of our three directors serving on the nominating committee, is not considered an independent director under the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules. In the event we are no longer a controlled company, we will be required to have a majority of independent directors on our board of directors and to have our compensation and nominating committees comprised solely of independent directors within one year of the date that we no longer qualify as a controlled company. Unless we no longer qualify, or choose to no longer rely on these exemptions in the future, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NASDAQ corporate governance requirements. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because CDC Corporation, as the indirect holder of all of our class B ordinary shares, controls the majority of the voting power of our ordinary shares, other shareholders will be unable to affect the outcome of shareholder votes with respect to most events. Our class A ordinary shares have one vote per share, and our class B ordinary shares have 10 votes per share. As of April 30, 2010, CDC Corporation indirectly owns 100% of our issued and outstanding class B ordinary shares through its 100% ownership of CDC Software International, representing 98.1% of the combined voting power of our aggregate issued and outstanding ordinary shares and 84.3% of the economic interest in our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, CDC Corporation has and is expected to maintain the ability to determine the outcome of shareholder votes with respect to most events that may require shareholder approval, including: • mergers, consolidations and other business combinations; • election or non-election of directors; • removal of directors; and • amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. As a result, CDC Corporation may be able to effectively approve or prevent a merger, consolidation or other business combination, elect or not elect directors, approve or prevent the removal of a director and approve or prevent amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. CDC Corporation may also require us to extend loans to it or its subsidiaries or affiliates or third parties, upon terms that may not be as beneficial as we could obtain in an unaffiliated arms-length transaction. CDC Corporation’s interests in any of these matters may be contrary to the interests of our class A shareholders. For more information regarding the shareholdings of CDC Corporation, see “Item 7.A., Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” We may lose rights to key intellectual property rights if CDC Corporation’s indirect ownership drops below certain levels. As CDC Corporation is our indirect parent company, we are the beneficiary of some of CDC Corporation’s intellectual property rights, including the use of its trademarks and service marks pursuant to the Trademark License Agreement entered into with it in connection with our initial public offering. If CDC Corporation ceases to own indirectly at least 50% of the total voting power of our ordinary shares, either we or CDC Corporation has the right to terminate the Trademark License Agreement, subject to a six month notice period. If we are no longer permitted to use CDC Corporation’s intellectual property, including its trademarks and service marks, we will need to expend significant time, effort and resources to establish a new brand name in the marketplace, which may not be successful. If we are unsuccessful in establishing our brand identity, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 10.C., Additional Information — Material Contracts.” Because CDC Corporation has not agreed to retain or otherwise indemnify us for liabilities arising from the operation of our business prior to our legal formation, third parties may seek to hold us responsible for any such liabilities. CDC Corporation has not agreed to retain or otherwise indemnify us for any liabilities that may arise in the future from the operation of our business by other CDC Corporation subsidiaries prior to our legal formation and the contribution or transfer of that business to us. If those liabilities are significant and we are ultimately held liable for them, we might not be able to recover any of our losses from CDC Corporation, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our ADSs 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements There may not be an active or liquid public market for our ADSs and the price of the ADSs may fluctuate significantly. Prior to our initial public offering in August 2009, there was no public market for our class A ordinary shares or ADSs. While our ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active or liquid public market for our ADSs may not be sustained. If an active trading market is not maintained, the liquidity and market price of our ADSs could be negatively affected. The trading price of our ADSs has also been, and is likely to continue to be, extremely volatile. From the date of our initial public offering in August 2009 to April 30, 2010, the closing price of our ADSs ranged from $8.19 to $11.83. There is no assurance that the price of our ADSs will not fall below its historic or yearly low. The market price of our ADSs has, and is likely to continue to fluctuate significantly due to: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of public market analysis; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • potential litigation or administrative investigations; • the success of our operating strategy; • the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; and • general economic, political and regulatory conditions in the countries in which we operate. These fluctuations in the market price of, and volume for, our ADSs often have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Broad market, political and industry factors may also decrease the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Securities class-action litigation and regulatory investigations often have been instituted against companies following steep declines in the market price of their securities. Many of these factors are beyond our control and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our ADSs. If the market price of our ADSs declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your ADSs at or above the price you paid for them. In addition, the stock markets in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations. The market price of our ADSs could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of our ordinary shares or ADSs could depress the trading price of our ADSs. Future sales, or the perception or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs could materially and adversely affect the prevailing trading price of our ADSs and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. As of April 30, 2010, there were 5.1 million class A ordinary shares issued, of which 4.8 million were represented by the ADSs, and 23.9 million class B ordinary shares, outstanding. The 4.8 million ADSs (and the class A ordinary shares represented thereby) are freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The remaining 23.9 million class B ordinary shares owned by our existing shareholder are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, but will be eligible for resale subject to applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. In connection with our initial public offering, in August 2009, we, our officers, directors, CDC Corporation and CDC Software International agreed to a “lock-up,” meaning that, subject to specified exceptions, neither we nor they will sell any shares or engage in any hedging transactions for 270 days after the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering in August 2009. Following the expiration of the lock-up period in May 2010, all of these ordinary shares became eligible for future sale, subject to the applicable volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, we may issue ordinary shares, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of ordinary shares, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue may in turn be significant. We may also grant registration rights covering those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Our ADS price could be adversely affected if our parent company materially changes its holdings in our shares, particularly if the share holdings are not disposed of in an orderly manner. As of April 30, 2010, CDC Software International owned 100% of our outstanding class B ordinary shares, representing 98.1% of the aggregate voting power of our outstanding ordinary shares and 84.3% of the economic interest in our outstanding ordinary shares. There is no guarantee that CDC Software International will continue to hold our shares going forward for any length of time. If CDC Software International disposes, or if our investors expect CDC Software International to dispose of, a substantial portion of their shareholdings in us at any time, it could adversely affect our ADS price. For more information regarding the shareholdings of CDC Software International, see “Item 7.A., Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Major Shareholders.” We may incur significant costs to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may incur significant costs and management time to avoid investment company status under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. Based upon an analysis of our combined historical assets as at December 31, 2009 and income for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the manner in which we operate, and intend to continue to operate our business, we do not believe we will be considered an investment company. The determination of whether or not we are an investment company is based primarily upon the composition and value of our assets, which are subject to change, particularly when market conditions are volatile. As a result, we could inadvertently become an investment company in the future. It is not feasible for us to be regulated as an investment company because application of Investment Company Act regulations are inconsistent with our strategy of actively managing, operating and promoting collaboration among our businesses. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares, including class A ordinary shares, at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each having a term of three years, with the term of one class expiring each year. This provision would delay the replacement of a majority of our directors and would make changes to our board of directors more difficult than if such provision was not in place. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our ADSs may view as beneficial. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provide for a dual-class ordinary share structure. CDC Software International currently holds 23.9 million of our class B ordinary shares. Holders of class B ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share, while holders of class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share. As of April 30, 2010, CDC Software International held class B ordinary shares representing 98.1% of our aggregate voting power, and holders of our outstanding ADSs (representing class A ordinary shares) represent 84.3% of the economic interest in our ordinary shares. Each class B ordinary share is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof at any time in accordance with our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association. Immediately following such redemption we will issue a new class A ordinary share. Class A ordinary shares are not redeemable for class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these two classes, our existing shareholder has significant voting power over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transactions that holders of ADSs may view as beneficial. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law. Decisions of the Privy Council (which is the final Court of Appeal for British Overseas Territories such as the Cayman Islands and certain other British commonwealth jurisdictions) are binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. Decisions of the English Courts, and particularly the House of Lords and the Court of Appeal are generally of persuasive authority, but are not binding on the courts of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. While there is no binding authority on this point, this is likely to include, in certain circumstances, a non-penal judgment of a United States court imposing a monetary award based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in foreign jurisdictions based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct our operations in many jurisdictions throughout the world, including China. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers reside in jurisdictions outside of the United States, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere upon these directors, executive officers and experts, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. For example, China does not have treaties with the United States and many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Chinese court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if we pay dividends or other distributions on our class A ordinary shares, you may not receive them or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on class A ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees, charge, and expenses and any taxes withheld, duties or governmental charges. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of class A ordinary shares your ADSs represent as of the record date (which will be as close as practicable to the record date for our class A ordinary shares). However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is illegal or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements ADSs. This means that you may not receive any distributions we make on our class A ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs and may result in a U.S. federal income tax liability where dividends are actually or constructively received by the depositary even where no actual distributions are paid to an ADS holder. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution of your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement entered into with the depositary in connection with our initial public offering, the depositary will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities is either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying class A ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening general meetings of shareholders is 10 days. When a general meeting of shareholders is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your class A ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and the class A ordinary shares underlying your ADSs may not be voted as you requested. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 