D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry The ZT Online franchise of massively multiplayer online role playing games, or MMORPGs, have historically accounted for the substantial majority of our net revenues. Any decrease in the popularity of these games would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The ZT Online franchise, which consists of the ZT Online 1 Series and ZT Online 2, accounted for 89%, 89% and 79% of our net revenue in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. In 2006 we commercially launched ZT Online, which together with ZT Online Classic Edition, and ZT Online Green Edition, constitutes the ZT Online 1 Series. In 2011 we commercially launched ZT Online 2, which is part of the ZT Online franchise but differs from the ZT Online 1 Series games in a number of ways, including its story, gameplay, graphics, maps, quests, and characters. The most significant change in ZT Online 2 is its in-game economy. ZT Online 2’s next generation in-game economy, the transaction-based revenue model which allows players to purchase in-game items from other players that have earned such items by leveling up their in-game characters and accomplishing in-game objectives, is designed to target lower spending and non-spending users as compared to that of ZT Online 1 Series, in which revenue is generated from the players’ consumption of game points to purchase items sold by the in-game store. Although we currently operate fifteen games, eleven of which are not part of the ZT Online franchise, we expect that we will continue to derive the substantial majority of our net revenues from the ZT Online franchise in the near term. Our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations would therefore be materially and adversely affected by any factor that contributes to a decline in revenue from the ZT Online franchise, including: • any reduction in purchases of virtual items or services by players of the ZT Online franchise games; • any decrease in the popularity of the ZT Online 1 Series or ZT Online 2 due to competition or otherwise; • failure to improve, update or enhance the ZT Online franchise games in a timely or effective manner; or • any lasting or prolonged server interruption due to network failures or other factors. 7 Table of Contents As with other online games, the ZT Online franchise games have finite commercial lifespans. Although our ongoing release of new version of the ZT Online franchise games helps to extend the commercial life of the games, to ensure the continued popularity of the ZT Online 1 Series and ZT Online 2, we will need to expend considerable resources to improve and update the games on a timely basis with new content and features that appeal to our players. Any decline in the popularity of the ZT Online franchise games, whether as a result of the failure to provide timely and popular updates or otherwise, would materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operation. If we are unable to successfully develop and license new popular online games, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. In order to maintain our long-term profitability and financial and operational success, we must continually develop or license new online games that are attractive to our players. While many new online game products are regularly introduced to the market, only a small number of “hit” titles account for a significant portion of total revenue in our industry. As the online game market is limited in size, if our newly developed games are not widely accepted by the players, or if successful hit products are launched by our competitors, our market share may be adversely affected and revenues generated by our products may fall below our expectations. The success of our internally developed games will largely depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing tastes and preferences of our players and to continually make technical advances to our platform. Developing games internally requires substantial initial investment prior to commercial launch of the games as well as a significant commitment of future resources. In addition, identifying new third party developed online games with strong market potential, and obtaining license to those online games on commercially reasonable terms, requires a significant degree of effort. If we are not able to successfully develop or license new hit online games that attract large numbers of players and result in substantial online game revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are substantially dependent upon the MMORPG segment of China’s online game industry. Any decline in the size of the MMORPG market segment, due to competition from other video game products, other entertainment products or otherwise, would adversely affect our revenues. The MMORPG segment of China’s online game industry, from which we derive substantially all of our revenues, is both rapidly evolving and subject to competition from other forms of video games and other entertainment products. The future prospects for the MMORPG market segment in China will depend on a number of factors beyond our control, including: • the growth of personal computer, internet and broadband users and their penetration in China; • whether the MMORPG segment of China’s online game industry continues to grow and the rate of any such growth; • the availability and popularity of other forms of video game products, such as social networking games, mobile games, and console games playable on game consoles; • the availability and popularity of other forms of online and offline entertainment, such as movies, television programs and other video content; • changes in consumer demographics and consumer tastes and preferences; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending. Although MMORPGs are currently popular in China, there is no assurance that they will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games in general, or the MMORPG market segment in particular, will materially and adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We face significant competition, which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our business and net revenues. The online game market in China is highly competitive. In recent years, numerous competitors have entered the online game market in China, and we expect more companies to enter the market and a wider range of online games to be introduced to the market. Our principal competitors include China-based online game companies such as Tencent Holdings, Ltd., Changyou.com Limited, Perfect World Co., Ltd., Shanda Games Limited and NetEase.com. In addition, we expect international game developers to continue to license more of their games for operation in China. 8 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand name recognition, larger player bases and significantly greater game development, technical, financial and marketing resources than we have. Furthermore, any of our competitors may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other cooperative relationships with larger, more well-financed companies and therefore obtain greater financial, marketing and development and licensing resources than we have. This may allow them to devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of new online games and technologies similar to or better than our own. These competitors may engage in more extensive research and development, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and make more attractive offers of employment to our existing and potential employees than we can. In addition, our international competitors may establish cooperative relationships with our local competitors, which may significantly enhance their competitiveness in the online game market in China. New and increased competition may result in larger discounts demanded by our distributors, or price reductions in our virtual items and services, any of which could adversely affect our net revenues. In addition, the increased competition in the online game market in China could make it difficult for us to retain and expand our existing player base, which could reduce the number of dedicated players and players with high disposable incomes that play our games and from whom we derive most of our net revenues. If we are unable to compete effectively in the online game market in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our games are currently accessed primarily through personal computers. As devices other than personal computers are increasingly used to access the internet, successful development of games for such devices will be imperative if we are to maintain or increase our revenues, and our inability to do so may result in lower growth of or a decline in revenues. Devices other than personal computers, such as mobile phones and tablets, are used increasingly in China and in overseas markets to access the internet. We believe that for our business to be successful we will need to develop versions of our existing games, our pipeline games and any future games that work well with such devices. The games that we develop for such devices may not function as smoothly as our existing games, and may not be attractive to game players in other ways. In addition, manufacturers of such devices may establish restrictive conditions for developers of applications to be used on such devices, and as a result our games may not work well, or at all, on such devices. As new devices are released or updated, we may encounter problems in developing versions of our games for use on such devices and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of games for such devices. If we are unable to successfully expand the types of devices on which our existing and future games are available, or if the versions of our games that we create for such devices do not function well or are not attractive to game players, our revenues may fail to grow and may decline. Our operating results fluctuate from period to period, making them difficult to predict. We have experienced significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Significant fluctuations in our operating results could be caused by any of the following factors, among others: • our ability to retain existing users of our games and attract new users; • the introduction of new games or expansion packs by us or our competitors; • changes in our game features and the corresponding impact on player behavior and purchasing patterns; • the adoption of new, or changes in existing government regulations; • the quality, variety, popularity and mix of virtual items and services available for purchase in our free-to-play games and related in-game promotional efforts; • game development costs for our self-developed games, and license costs and royalty payments for licensed games; • the amount of overseas licensing net revenues generated through our licensing arrangements with operators of our games; • the mix of sales through our distributors (who purchase prepaid game cards at a discount to their face value) and direct sales of game points to players through our website; • the success of our advertising and promotional efforts; • seasonality effect during holidays in the first quarter and fourth quarter, when fewer of our targeted players play our games; and • economic conditions in general and specifically with respect to the online game industry in China. For example, our net revenues declined 18% in 2009, which we believe was primarily due to new regulations promulgated by the PRC government in connection with certain game features, and corresponding changes to our in-game monetization features. However, our net revenues increased 2.2%, 34.5%, 20.0% and 9.5%, in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. 9 Table of Contents As a result, our operating results may vary from period to period, be difficult to predict for any given period, be adversely affected from period to period, and not be indicative of our future performance. In the event that our operating results do not meet our expectations or those of the public market analysts and investors, the price of our ADSs may decline. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies, which would materially and adversely affect our revenue, profitability and competitiveness. We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, including broadening our user base by diversifying our game portfolio, expanding our distribution channels by leveraging our strong relationships with internet platform partners, acquiring additional licenses to operate third party developed overseas games in China, pursuing additional licensing opportunities for operating our games overseas, and expanding into non-MMORPG market segments by developing web games, and games for operation on mobile and tablet devices. For example, in order to expand our user base, in September 2012 we released the micro-client version of ZT Online 2 on Qihoo 360’s platform. In 2012, we also licensed several of our new games, including Genesis of the Empire, Marine Tycoon, The Sky and World of Xianxia, to overseas partners for operations outside of China. In addition, we are expanding into web games and mobile games, and in 2013 we launched several web games on partner platforms in China including Genesis of the Empire, The Sky and the Supreme Tai Chi. In 2013, we also expanded our portfolio of licensed games by entering into an agreement to operate in China Cang Tian 2, a 3D MMORPG developed by WeMade Entertainment. Our experience with our various new growth strategies is limited. Accordingly, we cannot assure you whether all or any of these strategies will be successful. If we are unable to implement our growth strategies, our revenue and profitability may not grow as we expect, and our competitiveness may be materially and adversely affected. We may not sustain our historical profitability levels. Historically we have achieved a relatively high gross profit margin and net income margin. Our gross profit margin was 85.6%, 86.6% and 87.3% in 2011, 2012, and 2013, respectively, and our net income attributable to the company’s shareholders as a percentage of net revenue was 49.1%, 46.2% and 53.2% in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our relatively high gross profit margin and net income margin are attributable to a number of factors, including the success of our online games, the fact that our leading games are self-developed rather than licensed from third parties and our historic ability to effectively control costs. We might not, however, be able to sustain our historical profitability levels in future periods due to a number of different factors, including, among others, economic factors out of our control, competitiveness in the online game industry, in which market share can be quickly acquired or lost, the need to increase our research and product development expenses in order to develop new and successful games, the potential need to expend greater amounts in order to license or acquire new games, changes in regulations or other factors that result in a decline of our net revenue, our inability to prevent our other costs and operating expenses from increasing, and an increase in net income attributable to non-controlling interests as a result of the success of games supported by our 51% owned game development studios. Accordingly, you should not rely on the results of any prior period as an indication of our future operating performance. Our business may be materially harmed if our games are not featured in a sufficient number of internet cafés in China. A substantial number of players access our game through internet cafés. Due to limited storage space on the computer hard drives for client side game software, internet cafés generally only feature a select number of games on their computers. We thus compete with a growing number of other online game operators to ensure that our games are featured on these computers. To help ensure that our games are featured in a sufficient number of internet cafés, we enter into advertising distribution agreements with companies that operate and distribute internet café management software, which most internet cafés in China install. These management software distributors both display advertisements for our games on PCs that use their software, and help to ensure that the client side software for our games are installed on the PCs that use their software. Our agreements with the internet café management software companies are not on an exclusive basis, and therefore these firms can and do advertise for other game companies and ensure that the client side software for other companies games are pre-loaded on many of the PCs that use their software. If we fail to renew our advertising distribution agreements with the internet café management software companies, or if the terms including cost for such arrangement materially deteriorate, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of internet access with respect to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for personal computers in China is much lower than in the United States. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the introduction and expansion of broadband access, the cost of personal internet access remains relatively high in comparison to the average per capita income in China. The PRC government has also promulgated a number of regulations to curb the growth of internet cafés. The limited use of personal computers in China, the relatively high cost of personal internet access and increased restrictions on internet cafés may limit the growth of our business. Furthermore, any internet access or telecommunications fee increase could reduce the number of players that play our online games and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our nationwide distribution network for a significant portion of our net revenues. Failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors, or failure of our distributors to comply with the terms of our distribution agreements, could materially disrupt our business and harm our net revenues. Online payment systems in China are still in a relatively early stage of development and are not as widely used by customers in China as in the United States. Although online purchase of game points through our official game website has become more popular in recent years, our business is still dependent on the performance of our regional distributors, who are composed of independent third parties. In 2013, 45.7% of our sales proceeds were generated through sales of prepaid game cards to our distributors, compared to 55.4% in 2012. Our largest distributor accounted for 2.8% of our sales proceeds in 2013. Maintaining relationships with existing distributors may be difficult and time-consuming. Although we typically enter into annual contracts with our distributors, our distribution agreements are not exclusive and do not prohibit our distributors from selling our competitors’ game cards. Failure to maintain good relationships with our distributors could restrict our sales channels or encourage our distributors to seek to distribute our competitors’ products, each of which could materially and adversely disrupt our business and harm our net revenues. In addition, our distributors and internet cafés and other outlets in which they sell our prepaid game cards may violate our distribution agreements. Examples of violations include: • failure to meet minimum sales targets or penetration targets, or failure to maintain minimum price levels for our prepaid game cards; • failure to properly promote our online games in local internet cafés and other important outlets, or failure to cooperate with our sales and marketing team’s efforts in their designated territories; and • selling our prepaid game cards outside their designated territories, possibly in violation of the exclusive distribution rights that we have granted to other distributors. Some of our distributors have committed these types of violations in the past, which resulted in us terminating their existing distribution agreements. If we decide to fine, suspend or terminate our distributors for acting in violation of our distribution agreements, or if the distributors fail to address material violations committed by any of their retail outlets, our ability to effectively sell our prepaid game cards in any given territory could be negatively impacted. We may also be liable in China for legal or regulatory violations by any of our distributors. We could be liable for breaches of security of our website and third-party online payment system, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. In 2013, 54.3% of our sales proceeds were generated by players purchasing our game points directly through our official game website, and the remaining 45.7% from purchasing physical or virtual game cards through our distributors. The direct game point purchasing through our official game website is processed by a variety of third-party online payment service providers, including Alipay.com Co., Ltd, Shanghai China UnionPay E-Payment Service Co., Ltd, 99Bill Corporation, China Payment and Remittance Service Co., Ltd. and several major commercial banks. In such transactions, secure transmission of our players’ confidential billing information over public networks, including our official game website, is essential for maintaining consumer confidence. We currently provide password protection for all of our player accounts. In addition to the general password protection, we also sell a dynamic password generator, which can be used for multiple accounts under a player’s name, to better ensure the security of our players’ accounts. While we have not experienced any breach of our security measures to date, current security measures may be inadequate. We must therefore be prepared to increase our security measures and efforts so that our customers have confidence in the reliability of the online payment systems we use. 11 Table of Contents In addition, we do not have control over the security measures of our third-party online payment service providers, and those security measures may not be adequate at present or may not be adequate with the expected increased usage of online payment systems. For example, hackers have in the past used viruses to corrupt the computers of online shoppers using Taobao, a leading e-commerce website in China that allows shoppers to purchase goods from different vendors online. In addition, through a process known as phishing, hackers have created fake webpages on Taobao that appear to be selling legitimate goods online. In both situations, when an unsuspecting online shopper attempts to submit a purchase order and payment to a third party vendor on Taobao, that purchase order and payment is redirected to our website and changed into a legitimate purchase order and payment for our game points on behalf of the hacker and not the unsuspecting online shopper. Accordingly, our systems are then misled into accepting such payment and unintentionally issuing the corresponding game points to the hacker, who then uses these game points to purchase virtual items in our games with the intention of later exchanging the virtual items for cash on offline third party trading platforms. In a few instances, online shoppers on Taobao that were misled by hackers have resorted to litigation against us in order to recover their losses. Although the amount of damages we paid in connection with this litigation was immaterial, and we have implemented stricter security measures and cooperated with local authorities to apprehend the hackers, we could be exposed to further litigation and possible liability if we fail to detect fraudulent transactions, which could harm our reputation, ability to attract customers and ability to encourage players to purchase our game points. Unexpected network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business and reduce player satisfaction. Any failure to maintain satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure, including issues arising from the internet infrastructure in China, security breaches caused by hacking and transmission of computer viruses, and natural disasters such as floods and earthquakes, may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to retain existing and attract new game players. In addition, all of the game servers operating our games, and all of the servers handling log-in, billing and data back-up matters for us are hosted and maintained by third-party service providers. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware. In the past, our server network has experienced unexpected outages for several hours and occasional slower performance in a number of locations in China as a result of failures by third-party service providers. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our games or deterioration in the quality of access to our games could reduce our game players’ satisfaction and ultimately harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any security breach caused by hacking, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. Changes in our lifespan estimates for the virtual items sold within our games may have a negative impact on our net revenue and results of operations. We generally recognize revenues from virtual items sold to players of our free-to-play online games over the estimated lifespan of the relevant virtual items as determined by historical player usage patterns and playing behavior. We are committed to continually monitoring each of our games’ actual operational statistics and usage patterns, comparing these actual statistics with our original estimates and refining our estimates and assumptions when they are materially differ from the actual statistics. Any adjustment in the estimated lifespan of these virtual items may cause our revenues to be recognized over a significantly different time period, which may have a negative impact on our net revenue and results of operations. Undetected programming errors or defects in our games and the proliferation of cheating programs could adversely affect our business reputation and result in a decline in our active paying accounts. Our online games may contain undetected programming errors or other defects. In addition, parties unrelated to us have in the past, and may again in the future, develop internet cheating programs that enable users to acquire superior features for their game characters for which they would otherwise be required to pay or otherwise earn through game play. In addition, certain cheating programs could cause the loss of a character’s superior features acquired by a player. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our games, and our failure to discover and disable cheating programs affecting the fairness of our game environment, could damage our reputation and result in a decline in our active paying accounts. This could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel, and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services or are unable to attract new key employees. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executive officers and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise, experience and leadership of Mr. Yuzhu Shi, our founder and chairman, Ms. Wei Liu, our chief executive officer, and Mr. Xuefeng Ji, our president, in connection with our business operations and game development. We also rely on their personal relationships with our employees, the relevant regulatory authorities, and our distributors. In addition, we are dependent on a number of key technology officers and staff for the development and operation of our online games. Furthermore, we need to continue to attract and retain skilled and experienced online game development personnel to maintain our competitiveness. If one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all and may incur additional expenses to recruit and train new personnel. These difficulties may disrupt our business, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not maintain key-person life insurance for any of our key personnel. In addition, if any of our executive officers or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose know-how, trade secrets, suppliers and key professionals and staff. We enter into non-compete agreements with officers, managers and senior level employees, which generally prohibit them from engaging in activities that compete with our business for two years after their employment with us provided that we satisfy certain payment obligations. Although non-compete agreements are generally enforceable under PRC laws, PRC legal practice regarding the enforceability of such provisions may not be as well-developed, and therefore we cannot assure you that a PRC court would enforce such provisions. Furthermore, since the demand and competition for talent is intense in our industry, particularly for online game development personnel and related technical personnel, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future, which could increase our compensation expenses. In 2008, we introduced Win@Giant, an incubation program designed to attract and retain talented employees, developers and business partners. Under Win@Giant, we have reorganized several of our game development studios by establishing various subsidiaries that are generally 51% owned by us and 49% owned by the relevant key development team members, with an aim to facilitate our development of new online games. Each reorganized studio only focuses on producing and supporting internally developed games, which we believe gives them greater incentive to make their games commercially successful. While this program is intended to supplement and not to replace our normal hiring efforts, we cannot assure you that this program will be successful or that we will be able to attract or retain qualified game developers or other key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. The reorganization of our game development studios could materially and adversely affect our results of operations as a portion of the profits from games developed or operated by these studios will be shared with the non-controlling shareholders of these studios. In 2008, we introduced Win@Giant, an incubation program designed to, among other things, identify, recruit and incentivize talented individuals in the areas of game design and development. In 2009, in connection with our Win@Giant initiative, we began to reorganize our game development studios by establishing various subsidiaries that are 51% owned by us and 49% owned by the relevant development team members, which we believe provides greater incentive to the game development teams to make their games commercially successful. Following this game development studio reorganization, ZT Online 2 and World of Xianxia, two of our most successful MMORPGs, are supported by Jujia Network and Juhuo Network, respectively, each of which is 51% owned by us and 49% owned by the relevant development team members. For additional information regarding this reorganization, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — Business Overview — Game Development and Sourcing — Game Development.” As a result of our game development studio reorganization, a portion of the net income generated by games developed or supported by these game development studios will be attributable to the non-controlling shareholders of the studios. The company consolidates its financial results with those of the reorganized studios, and then presents the net income or loss attributable to the non-controlling shareholders as a separate non-controlling interest line item under the heading “net income or loss attributable to non-controlling interests”. The company’s consolidated income attributable to its shareholders is arrived at after deducting this non-controlling interest. Total non-controlling interest related to our reorganized studios increased 5.9% from RMB78.2 million in 2012 to RMB82.8 million (US$13.7 million) in 2013, primarily due to an increase in revenue generated by games developed and supported by reorganized studios. If our games developed and/or supported by these studios become more popular and profitable in the future, this non-controlling interest amount will increase, which may result in a lower net income attributable to company’s shareholders and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. We intend to continue expanding our business through selective acquisitions in the future. We do not, however, have significant experience in completing acquisitions or integrating new companies into our existing operations. In the event that we pursue acquisition opportunities in the future, we will face a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations, including overpaying for the acquisitions, an inability to realize the synergies contemplated at the time of executing the transactions, difficulties in integrating the acquired companies, the diversion of management resources from other strategic and operational issues, the inability to retain the key employees of the acquired companies, and unknown or unforeseen assumed liabilities. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may adversely affect our business and reputation. We have historically relied on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, internal security measures and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Although we enter into confidentiality agreements with all of our employees, and our standard employment agreements include an invention assignment clause, we cannot assure you that these confidentiality agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to, or be independently developed by, third parties. As of December 31, 2013, we own a total of 769 registered trademarks in China and overseas and are in the process of applying for the registration of 304 trademarks in China and 28 trademarks overseas. We cannot assure you that any of these trademark applications will ultimately be successful or will provide adequate protection for our business. Some of our pending applications or registrations may also be successfully challenged or invalidated by others. If our trademark applications or registrations are not successful, we may have to use different marks or otherwise enter into arrangements with third parties. In addition, China’s online game market often faces challenges from pirate servers, which are game servers operating unauthorized copies of online games that enable players to play those games without purchasing prepaid game cards or game points from the authorized operators. We mitigate the risk of pirate servers by maintaining stringent security controls over our server side software at our offices and insisting upon high security standards at the various internet data centers where our servers are housed. In addition, once pirate servers are identified, we work with local government authorities to shut the servers down. If pirate game servers continue to operate any of our games, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Implementation of intellectual property laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property right protection in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary technology, trademarks and other intellectual property is difficult and expensive, and litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to infringement and misappropriation claims in the future, which may cause us to incur significant expenses, pay substantial damages and be prevented from providing our services or technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to carry out our business without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent, copyright or trademark infringement, or other violations of intellectual property rights of third parties. In particular, the patent field covering online games and related technology is rapidly evolving and surrounded by a great deal of uncertainty, and therefore we cannot assure you that our technologies, processes or methods do not infringe upon third-party patents, either now existing or to be issued in the future. Future litigation may cause us to incur significant expenses, and third-party claims, if successfully asserted against us, may cause us to pay substantial damages, seek licenses from third parties, pay ongoing royalties, redesign our services or technologies, or prevent us from providing services or technologies subject to these claims. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation would likely be costly and time-consuming and divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. 14 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage, which may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We have purchased a public liability insurance policy, which would cover certain third party personal injury or property damage incurred in connection with the operation of our business. We also understand that business interruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, but we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to purchase for such insurance. As a result, other than the public liability insurance policy described above, we do not have any business liability, disruption or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Except for the public liability insurance policy described above, property insurance for our offices and fixed assets, and legally required automobile liability insurance, we do not carry any other property or casualty insurance. Any business disruption or litigation, or any liability or damage to, or caused by, our facilities or our personnel may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, our investors may lose confidence in our financial statements. We are subject to provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2013, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurred with our management’s conclusion. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This in turn could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could materially and adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. This may afford less protection to the holders of our ADSs. We are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE by virtue of being a foreign private issuer. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to follow home country practice in lieu of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. We are required to provide a brief description of the significant differences between the corporate governance practices of our home country, the Cayman Islands, and the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. domestic companies under the NYSE rules. The standards applicable to us are considerably different than the standards applied to U.S. domestic issuers. The significantly different standards applicable to us do not require us to, among other things: • have a majority of the board be independent (other than due to the requirements for the audit committee under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act); or • obtain shareholder approval for the implementation and material revisions of the terms of our equity compensation plans. We are committed to a high standard of corporate governance and as such we endeavor to comply with most of the NYSE corporate governance practices. We do, however, intend to rely on each of the foreign private issuer exemptions noted above. As a result, you may not be provided with the benefits of certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. As an online game company, our experience with investment activities is limited. We explore selected investment opportunities that may have strategic value to us or that are purely financial in nature, with the primary objective of providing us with a more favorable rate of return than is customary for ordinary bank deposits. For example, as of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, we held short-term investments with a more favorable rate of return than is customary for ordinary bank deposits and long-term held-to-maturity investments in the amount of RMB700.0 million, RMB790.0 million and RMB2,559.2 million (US$422.7 million), respectively. In May 2011, we invested RMB100.0 million in a trust arrangement with China Resources SZITIC Trust Co., Ltd., which in turn invested in certain real estate development projects in the PRC cities of Ningbo and Chengdu for a period of five years. In 2013, this investment was terminated early. In 2012, we invested RMB600.0 million in two trust arrangements with Huaneng Guicheng Trust Co., Ltd., both of these trust investments are associated with certain real estate development projects and have a term of one year. As of December 31, 2013, each of these real estate related investments had either matured or been wound-up. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we have made certain other investments. For example, in 2008 we acquired a 25% equity interest in 51.com, formerly a China-based social networking company which transitioned into an online game developer and operator in recent years, for a consideration of US$50.8 million. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we recorded an impairment charge of RMB240.7 million with respect to this investment due to lower than expected core business revenue and operating cash flow, and delays in research and development activities and planned promotion campaigns for newly launched games. In April 2011, we committed to invest RMB30.0 million in Beijing Innovation Work Investment Center (LP), or Innovation Work, an early-stage China-based internet and technology company investment fund, which is led by Mr. Kai-Fu Lee, a well-known business leader in the internet space in China, of which RMB22.5 million had been invested by December 31, 2013. Finally, in May 2013, we committed to invest US$20 million in Yunfeng Fund II, L.P. As of March 31, 2014, we paid US$3.29 million in total to Yunfeng Fund II, L.P. For additional information regarding our investments, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Investing Activities.” These investments are made in contemplation that the underlying businesses will achieve or sustain continued business growth, eventually go public or be acquired, which there are no guarantees of occurring. In addition, some of these investments may only provide limited exits to us and therefore our investments may be illiquid until their respective maturity, or potentially until a liquidity event occurs with respect to the underlying companies. Although these investments may offer us potentially higher returns, these returns are not guaranteed and as such, we may not be able to achieve an adequate rate of return and may suffer losses on our investments. If we experience significant losses in connection with our investment activities, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks associated with the licensing of our games overseas, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business internationally. We have licensed seven of our self-developed games for operation in various foreign countries, regions and territories of Asia, Europe and North America by a variety of different operating partners. In 2013, our revenues from licensing our games to overseas third party operators was approximate RMB21.2 million (US$3.5 million), accounting for approximately 0.9% of our total net revenues. Licensing our games for operation in overseas markets exposes us to a number of risks, including difficulties in: • identifying and maintaining good relations with game operators who are knowledgeable, and can effectively distribute and operate our games, in overseas markets; • negotiating licensing agreements with game operators on terms that are commercially acceptable to us and enforcing the provisions of those agreements; • developing games, updates and expansion packs catering to overseas markets and renewing our license agreements with game operators upon expiration; • maintaining the reputation of our company and our games, given that our games are operated by game operators in the international markets with different standards; • protecting our intellectual property rights overseas and managing the related costs; • receiving and auditing the royalties we are entitled to receive; • complying with the different commercial and legal requirements of the international markets in which our games are offered, such as game import regulatory procedures, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; and • managing our foreign currency risks. For example, in November 2012, a newly updated version of ZT Online 2 that we licensed for operation in Vietnam included a map that indicated certain islands in the South China Sea that are claimed by both Vietnam and China belong to China. After receiving considerable pressure from the Vietnamese government and media, our local operator in Vietnam stopped operating both ZT Online and ZT Online 2. Following the operation shutdown, we terminated both game license agreements. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our ability to license our games overseas may be impaired, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our reputation and trading prices of our securities may be negatively affected by adverse publicity related to our business. Beginning in early 2014, we were subject to negative publicity resulting from a series of reports published by an entity that holds itself out as a research firm resulting in volatility in the trading price of our ADSs. The reports contained numerous allegations with respect to, among other things, the independence of our outside directors and certain investments and transactions entered into by us. Our management and audit committee, and then our full board, evaluated the allegations and determined that they do not merit further investigation or changes to our prior year financial statement disclosure. However, such allegations and any corresponding adverse publicity related to our business, regardless of merit, could harm our reputation, cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline or fluctuate significantly and require additional responsive actions distracting our management. Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business PRC regulations relating to our industry are evolving. Any adverse or unanticipated regulatory changes could significantly harm our business or limit our ability to operate. Substantial uncertainties and restrictions exist with respect to the application and implementation of PRC laws and regulations in the online game industry. If the PRC government finds that our past or current structure for our business operations does not comply with PRC laws and regulations, we may lose control of Giant Network, resulting in its deconsolidation, and could be subject to severe penalties, including ceasing our operations. Various regulations in China currently restrict or prevent foreign and foreign-invested entities from engaging in value-added telecommunication services, which are defined by PRC authorities to include operating online games and providing online advertisements. Since we are a Cayman Islands exempted company and therefore are a foreign or foreign-invested enterprise under PRC law, neither we nor our PRC subsidiaries are eligible to hold the licenses required to operate online games in China. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we operate our online games in China through Giant Network, which is beneficially owned by certain of our officers and directors and other individuals. Through a series of contractual arrangements, Zhengtu Information is able to effect control and management of Giant Network. Giant Network, which conducts business as an internet content provider, or ICP, holds a value-added telecommunications business operating license, or ICP license, issued by the Shanghai Communications Administration, a local office of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the PRC, or the MIIT, which allows Giant Network to provide internet content distribution services in Shanghai. In addition, Giant Network also holds an internet culture operation license issued by the Ministry of Culture, or MOC, and an internet publishing license issued by the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television or SAPPRFT, in order to operate and distribute games through the internet. These licenses are essential to the operation of our business. Despite the lack of technical majority ownership, there exists a parent-subsidiary relationship between our Cayman Islands Company and Giant Network through the irrevocable proxy granted by Giant Network to Zhengtu Information, a wholly-owned subsidiary of our Cayman Islands company, whereby the equity holders of Giant Network effectively assigned all of their voting rights underlying their equity interest to Zhengtu Information. We have entered into contractual arrangements with Giant Network pursuant to which Zhengtu Information, our wholly-owned subsidiary, provides technical support and exclusive software licenses to Giant Network. As a result of these contractual arrangements, under U.S. GAAP, we are considered the primary beneficiary of Giant Network and, accordingly, we consolidate its historical results in our financial statements. For detailed descriptions of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions.” The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of the law. For example, on July 26, 2006, the MIIT publicly released the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Operating Value-added Telecommunications Business, dated July 13, 2006, or the MIIT Notice, which reiterates certain provisions under China’s Administrative Rules on Telecommunications Enterprises prohibiting a domestic company that holds an ICP license from renting, transferring or selling a telecommunications license to foreign investors in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to foreign investors that intend to conduct value-added telecommunication business illegally in China. Trademarks and domain names that are used in the provision of Internet content services must be owned by the ICP license holder. There is currently no official interpretation or implementation practice under the MIIT Notice. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the authorities, it is uncertain whether the MIIT would consider our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunication services. Therefore, it is unclear what impact the MIIT Notice might have on us or the other PRC internet companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate structures and contractual arrangements as ours. 17 Table of Contents In addition, on September 28, 2009, SAPPRFT, together with the National Copyright Administration, and the National Office of Combating Pornography and Illegal Publications jointly issued a Notice on Further Strengthening on the Administration of Pre-examination and Approval of Online Games and the Examination and Approval of Imported Online Game (Xin Chu Lian [2009] No. 13), or the SAPPRFT Notice. The SAPPRFT Notice restates that foreign investors are not permitted to invest in online game operating businesses in China via wholly-owned, equity joint venture or cooperative joint venture investments and expressly prohibits foreign investors from gaining control over or participating in domestic online game operators through indirect ways such as establishing other joint venture companies, or contractual or technical arrangements. However, the SAPPRFT Notice does not provide any interpretation of the term “foreign investors” or make a distinction between foreign online game companies and companies with a corporate structure that is similar to our own, including the many internet and other companies from China with shares listed on overseas stock exchanges. If our corporate structure was deemed under the SAPPRFT Notice to be an “indirect way” for foreign investors to exercise control over or participate in the operation of a domestic online game business, our contractual arrangements might be challenged. We cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our contractual arrangements to be in compliance with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, including without limitation, the requirements described in the MIIT Notice and the SAPPRFT Notice, existing policies, or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If any of our businesses are determined not to be in compliance with the MIIT Notice or the SAPPRFT Notice, the PRC government could take a number of regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business, including but not limited to: levying fines, confiscating our income, revoking our business and operating licenses, discontinuing or restricting our operations, blocking our website, requiring us to restructure our business, restricting our right to collect revenue or imposing additional conditions or requirements with which we cannot comply. We may also encounter difficulties in obtaining performance or enforcement of related contracts, thereby losing our control of Giant Network, resulting in its deconsolidation. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and subsequently the market price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, if our ownership structure was required to change, our ability to consolidate the financial results of Giant Network and its consolidated entities could be adversely affected. The contractual arrangements with Giant Network and its shareholders, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. In addition, these arrangements may be difficult and costly to enforce. We rely on contractual arrangements with Giant Network and its shareholders to operate our business. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company — Organizational Structure” and “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions.” These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with operational control over Giant Network. Direct ownership would allow us, for example, to directly exercise our rights as a shareholder to (i) effect changes in the board of directors of Giant Network, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, in the management team, and (ii) derive economic benefits from the operations of Giant Network by causing it to declare and pay dividends. Because we rely on these contractual arrangements to effect control over Giant Network, we are exposed to the risk that the shareholders of Giant Network may fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements. In addition, the shareholders of Giant Network may potentially have a conflict of interest with us, and they may breach their contracts with us or cause such contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company, if they believe such action furthers their own interest, or if they otherwise act in bad faith. If any of the foregoing were to occur, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to enforce these contractual arrangements. In addition, all of these contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. We would have to rely for enforcement on legal remedies under PRC law, including specific performance, injunctive relief or damages, which may not be effective or possible. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in jurisdictions such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, which relate to critical aspects of our operations, we may be unable to exert effective control over Giant Network and our ability to conduct our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively affected. 18 Table of Contents The contractual arrangements entered into among our PRC subsidiaries, Giant Network and its shareholders may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities; a finding that our PRC subsidiaries or Giant Network owes additional taxes could substantially reduce our net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiaries Zhengtu Information and Zhengju Information, Giant Network, Giant Network’s shareholders and our reorganized game development studios do not represent arm’s-length prices and adjust any of their income in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. In 2011, the high and new technology enterprise status of Zhengtu Information was renewed while that of Giant Network was not renewed, resulting in an income tax rate of 15% percent for Zhengtu Information and 25% for Giant Network. In addition, in 2013, Zhengtu Information was named a national key software enterprise for the tax years of 2011 and 2012, further reducing the applicable income tax rate for Zhengtu Information in those years to 10%. This difference in income tax rate may increase the risk that PRC tax authorities challenge the prices that Giant Network pays for services provided by Zhengtu Information pursuant to their contractual arrangements. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction of expense deductions recorded by Giant Network, which could in turn increase our tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on Zhengtu Information, our other PRC subsidiaries or Giant Network for underpayment of taxes. For additional information regarding the preferential tax treatments of our various PRC entities, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Income Tax Expense — China.” We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by Giant Network under contractual arrangements that are important to the operation of our business if Giant Network declares bankruptcy or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. Under our contractual arrangements, Giant Network holds assets that are critical to our business operations, such as our licenses and permits, some of our core intellectual property, and/or our joint operation agreements relating to our games and game operations. Although the purchase option and cooperation agreement among Zhengtu Information, Giant Network and shareholders of Giant Network contain terms that specifically obligate the shareholders of Giant Network to ensure the valid existence of Giant Network, in the event the shareholders breach this obligation and voluntarily liquidate Giant Network, or if Giant Network declares bankruptcy and all or part of its assets became subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we might be unable to continue some or all of our business operations. Furthermore, if Giant Network was to undergo a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors might claim rights to some or all of Giant Network’s assets and their rights could be senior to our rights under the contractual arrangements, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business. The discontinuation, reduction or delay of any of the preferential tax treatments or the government financial incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, foreign-invested companies such as Zhengtu Information, and domestic companies such as Giant Network, are subject to a unified income tax rate of 25%. Various favorable income tax rates are, however, available for qualified enterprises in encouraged sectors of the economy. Companies that qualify as a high and new technology enterprise, or HNTE, a status which is reassessed every three years, are subject to an income tax rate of 15%. In addition, companies that qualify as a software development enterprise are exempt from income tax for two years and subject to an income tax rate of 12.5% for the following three years. In 2008, the Shanghai government granted Zhengtu Information HNTE status, which was successfully renewed in 2011. In 2011, the Shanghai government recognized three of our PRC subsidiaries as software development enterprises, consisting of Jujia Network and Juhuo Network, two of our 51% owned game development studios, and Zhengju Information, which is our wholly-owned subsidiary. In addition, Beijing Giant Zhengtu, which is 51% owned by Zhengtu Information, 34% owned by Giant Network and 15% owned by Juyan Network, was also recognized as a software development enterprises in 2011 by the Beijing government. We cannot assure you, however, that our PRC entities will be able to continue to qualify for preferential tax treatment. If any of our PRC entities that qualified for preferential tax treatments fails to continue to qualify in a subsequent year, our income tax expenses would increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. For additional information regarding the preferential tax treatments of our various PRC entities, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Operating Results — Income Tax Expense — China.” 19 Table of Contents In addition, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, our PRC entities received financial incentives from the government in an aggregate amount of RMB47.7 million, RMB63.6 million and RMB44.8 million (US$7.4 million), respectively, which were calculated with reference to taxable revenues and taxable income. To be eligible to apply for the government financial incentives, we are required to meet a number of financial and non-financial criteria and, even if we meet these criteria, the grant of any incentive is still subject to the discretion of the municipal government. Moreover, the central government or municipal government could at any time eliminate or reduce these government financial incentives. Since the government has discretion in the timing of payment and the amount of the financial incentive, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to enjoy these government financial incentives or receive such incentives promptly. The discontinuation, reduction or delay of these government financial incentives could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” under the PRC EIT Law; such classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. In addition, a circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation regarding the standards used to classify certain PRC controlled enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises”, or Circular 82, clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC sourced income, subject to PRC enterprise income tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC shareholders. This circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, Circular 82 details that certain PRC controlled enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or resident in China: (i) senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; (ii) financial and personnel decision making bodies; (iii) key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and (iv) half or more of the directors or senior management having voting rights. Although the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises or PRC enterprise groups, not those controlled by individuals or foreign enterprises like us. Therefore, we do not currently consider our company or any of our overseas subsidiaries to be a PRC resident enterprise. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that our Cayman Islands holding company is a “resident enterprise,” a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, although under the EIT Law and the Implementing Rules dividends paid to our non-PRC holding companies from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempted income”, any such dividends paid to our non-PRC holding companies may be subject to an enterprise income tax, and the PRC foreign exchange control authorities have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. We are actively monitoring the “resident enterprise” classification rules and our Cayman Islands holding company’s facts and circumstances relative to the classification rules. Similar results could follow if our BVI subsidiary is considered a PRC “resident enterprise.” The PRC EIT Law will affect tax exemptions on the dividends we receive and we may not be able to obtain certain treaty benefits on such dividends. We are a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our business through our PRC subsidiaries, Giant Network and its consolidated entities, and we derive substantially all of our income from these companies. Prior to January 1, 2008, dividends derived by foreign enterprises from business operations in China were not subject to the PRC withholding tax. However, such tax exemption ceased after January 1, 2008 and a withholding tax of 10% is imposed on all dividends declared and paid after January 1, 2008. In the third quarter of 2011, we declared and paid out a special dividend of US$3.00 per share to our ADS and ordinary share shareholders, out of which the payout was financed partially through the declaration and payout of dividends to the Company by one of its PRC subsidiaries. As such, the dividends were subject to a 10% withholding tax and therefore, we accrued a one-time withholding income tax in the amount of RMB259.4 million associated with the repatriation of cash for the special dividend paid during the third quarter 2011. 20 Table of Contents According to the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Summary Table of Treaty Rates for Dividends, or Circular 112, which was issued on January 29, 2008 and the Arrangement between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Evasion, or the Double Taxation Arrangement (Hong Kong), which became effective on December 8, 2006, dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiary may be subject to a withholding tax at a reduced rate of 5% if such Hong Kong entity owns at least 25% of the equity interest of the PRC company. The ultimate withholding tax rate will be determined by treaty between the PRC and the tax residence of the holder of the PRC subsidiaries. The State Administration of Taxation promulgated a tax notice on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides that tax treaty benefits will be denied to “conduit” or shell companies without business substance and a beneficial ownership analysis will be used based on a “substance-over-the-form” principle to determine whether or not to grant treaty benefits. Beginning in 2013, Giant HK was deemed to be the beneficial owner of dividends paid to it by Zhengduo Information and Zhengtu Information, two of our PRC Subsidiaries, and accordingly such dividend payments were subject to a withholding tax at a reduced rate of 5%. We can provide no assurances, however, as to whether Giant HK will continue to be deemed the beneficial owner of dividends paid to it by our PRC Subsidiaries in the future, and therefore whether such dividends will be subject to a 5% reduced withholding tax rate or subject to the standard 10% withholding tax rate. In addition, in connection with the reorganization of Zhengtu Information that we completed in May 2013, our entire equity interest in Zhengtu Information previously held by Eddia International and Giant HK is now held by Giant HK. Pursuant to the Announcement of the Administration of Taxation on Issues Concerning the Application of Special Tax treatment in the Equity Transfer of Non-Resident Enterprises by the State Administration of Taxation issued in 2013, due to the fact that Eddia International is organized in the British Virgin Islands and therefore does not qualify for a reduced withholding tax rate, while Giant HK is organized in Hong Kong and may qualify for a reduced withholding tax rate, any dividends paid by Zhengtu Information to Giant HK from earnings accumulated prior to the reorganization might be subject to the standard 10% withholding tax rate instead of the 5% reduced withholding tax rate. The recently adopted PRC tax reform pilot program, which was initiated in Shanghai and may be extended to other cities in the future, requires us to pay value-added tax instead of business tax in Shanghai and it could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us. The PRC government recently adopted a PRC tax reform pilot program, which was initiated in Shanghai and may be extended to other cities in the future. On November 16, 2011, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Circular on the Pilot Program for the Collection of Value-Added Tax Instead of Business Tax, or Circular 110, and the Circular on the Pilot Program for the Collection of Value-Added Tax Instead of Business Tax in Transportation and Certain Modern Service Sectors in Shanghai, or Circular 111, to provide specific implementation rules for the pilot program, which became effective January 1, 2012. Pursuant to Circular 110 and Circular 111, starting from January 1, 2012, companies that are classified by Shanghai’s local tax authorities as operating business in transportation or certain modern service sectors in Shanghai are required to pay a Value-Added Tax, or VAT, instead of the business tax. Specifically, a 17% rate applies to the movable property leasing services, an 11% rate applies to the transportation services and a 6% rate applies to certain other modern services, such as research and development, technological services, culture, logistics and consultation. Currently, Giant Network continues to pay business tax on its net revenue at a rate of 5% and has not been required to transition to paying VAT. However, the interpretation and enforcement of this tax reform pilot program involve significant uncertainties. In the event that Giant Network is deemed to engage in business falling within the category of certain modern service sectors or if the VAT tax reform pilot program is expanded to other sectors, Giant Network may also be required to pay VAT rather than business tax. Because the tax reform pilot program is subject to significant uncertainties with respect to interpretation and implementation, in the event that Giant Network are required to pay VAT rather than business tax, they may face unfavorable tax consequences, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. PRC laws and regulations establish complex procedures for some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. PRC laws and regulations, such as the M&A Rules promulgated by six PRC regulatory agencies in 2006 and amended in 2009, the Anti-Monopoly Law promulgated by the PRC National People’s Congress in 2007 and the Circular on the Establishment of a National Security Review Mechanism for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by the General Office of the PRC State Council in 2011, or the National Security Review Mechanism Circular, establish procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign investors and companies more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that various governmental authorities be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. 21 Table of Contents In addition, the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review Mechanism of Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated by the MOFCOM in August 2011, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, effective September 1, 2011, which implements the National Security Review Mechanism Circular, provides that, a security review by MOFCOM is required for mergers and acquisitions of PRC domestic enterprises by foreign investors (i) having “national defense and security” concerns, and (ii) where the foreign investors may acquire the “de facto control” of the PRC domestic enterprises having national security concerns such as key farm products, key energy and resources, and key infrastructure, transportation, technology and major equipment manufacturing industries. Neither the National Security Review Mechanism Circular nor the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, however, defines the term of “key” or “major,” nor has it exhausted all the industries that may be deemed as sensitive industries subject to the security review. When deciding whether a specific merger or acquisition of a domestic enterprise by foreign investors is subject to MOFCOM’s security review, the principle of “substance over form” should be applied and foreign investors are prohibited from bypassing the security review requirement by way of structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. We may expand our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the relevant PRC laws and regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. We and our investors face uncertainty with respect to indirect transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises by their non-PRC holding companies. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 are effective retroactively to January 1, 2008. Under the two circulars, non-PRC-resident enterprises may be subject to income tax on capital gains generated from their transfers of equity interests in PRC resident enterprises, or an indirect transfer. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authorities have discretion under Circular 59 and Circular 698 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of the investment. In addition, by promulgating and implementing the circulars, the PRC tax authorities have increased their scrutiny of the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-PRC-resident enterprise. For example, Circular 698 specifies that the PRC State Administration of Taxation is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial purpose. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term “indirect transfer” is not clearly defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the implementation of Circular 698, such as the process and format of the reporting of an indirect transfer to the competent tax authority of the relevant PRC resident enterprise remains unclear. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to determine whether a foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to reduce, avoid or defer PRC tax. Circular 698 may be determined by the tax authorities to be applicable to our private equity financing transactions, disposal of our subsidiaries, acquisitions of complementary businesses, or disposal of shares or ADSs in our company, where non-PRC resident investors are involved. As a result, we and our non-PRC resident investors may, when doing transactions that involve the transfer of our shares or equity interests of our subsidiaries, become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we or our non-PRC resident shareholders should not be taxed under Circular 698, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or such non-PRC resident investors’ investments in us. Intensified government regulation of internet cafés could limit our ability to maintain or increase our net revenues and expand our customer base. Starting in 2001, the PRC government began tightening its supervision of internet cafés, closing unlicensed internet cafés, requiring those remaining open to install software to prevent access to sites deemed subversive and requiring web portals to sign a pledge not to host subversive sites. In February 2007, 14 PRC national government authorities, including the MIIT, the MOC and the SAPPRFT, jointly issued a notice suspending nationwide approval for the establishment of new internet cafés and enhancing the punishment for internet cafés admitting minors. This suspension may continue indefinitely. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent internet cafés, may slow down the growth of internet cafés. Governmental authorities may from time to time impose stricter requirements, such as limits on the ages of customers and hours of operation, as a result of the occurrence or perception of, or media attention on, gang fights, fires and other incidents accruing at or related to internet cafés. 22 Table of Contents As internet cafés are one of the primary venue for users to play our games, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of internet cafés in China will limit our ability to maintain or increase our net revenues and expand our customer base, which will in turn materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The laws and regulations governing the online game industry in China are developing and subject to future changes. If we fail to obtain or to maintain all applicable permits and approvals, our business and operations would be materially and adversely affected. In China, the internet industry, including the operation of online games, is highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, the MIIT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, the MOC, SAPPRFT, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to promulgate and implement regulations governing various aspects of the internet and the online game industry. We are required to obtain applicable permits or approvals from different regulatory authorities in order to provide online game services. For example, an internet content provider, or ICP, must obtain a value-added telecommunications business operation license, or ICP license, from the MIIT or its local offices in order to engage in any commercial ICP operations within China. An online game operator must also obtain an internet culture operation license from the MOC, and an internet publishing license from SAPPRFT, in order to operate and distribute games through the internet. Any self-developed online game we operate needs to be approved by SAPPRFT prior to its launch and filed with the MOC within thirty days after its launch. Imported online games need to be approved by both SAPPRFT and MOC. Once any upgrade, expansion pack or new version of any existing game is launched, it must be filed with the MOC in the case of a self-developed game and approved by the MOC in the case of an imported game, and approval must be obtained from the SAPPRFT prior to its online publication. Giant Network holds a valid ICP License, a valid internet culture operation license and a valid internet publishing license. As the online game industry continues to evolve and develop in China, new laws and regulations may be adopted from time to time to require additional licenses and permits other than those we currently have. While we believe that we comply in all material respects with all applicable PRC laws and regulations currently in effect, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain timely, or at all, required licenses or any other new license required in the future. We also cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws and regulations. Further strengthened supervision of the online game industry may adversely affect our online game operations. The authority, roles and responsibilities of the PRC governmental departments with oversight of the online game industry in China, including SAPPRFT and the MOC, are currently ambiguous and we may face stricter scrutiny in the future regarding the day-to-day operations of our online game business. For example, our online game business may be adversely affected by ambiguities and potential conflicts between notices issued by SAPPRFT and the MOC. SAPPRFT initially stated in the SAPPRFT Notice that it is the only governmental department with authority for examination and pre-approval of online games, and that all online game operators must obtain an internet publishing license to provide online game services. Pursuant to the SAPPRFT Notice, additional approvals from SAPPRFT are required when game operators release new versions or expansion packs, or make any changes to the originally approved online game. In addition, on July 1, 2009, SAPPRFT issued the Notice on Strengthening the Approval and Administration of Imported Online Games, in which SAPPRFT stated that it is the only governmental department authorized by the State Council to approve the importation of online games from offshore copyright owners. In the event of any failure to meet the above-mentioned requirements, an operator may face heavy penalties, such as being ordered to stop operation, or having its business license revoked. Our online game business may be adversely affected by these two SAPPRFT notices. The launch of expansion packs and imported games might be delayed because of the extra approval required. Such delay in releasing expansion packs or imported games may result in higher costs for our online game operation and have an adverse effect on our game revenue. On June 3, 2010, the MOC issued the Tentative Measures for Online Game Administration, or the Online Game Measures, which became effective on August 1, 2010, aiming to further strengthen the MOC’s supervision of the online game industry. Specifically, the Online Game Measures reiterate that the MOC has the power to review the content of all online games except online game publications that have been pre-approved by SAPPRFT. However, the Online Game Measures do not clearly specify what constitutes “online game publication.” Furthermore, the Online Game Measures provide that all domestic online games must be filed with the MOC within 30 days after their launch, while all imported online games are subject to a content review prior to their launch. If a substantial change (for example, any significant modification to a game’s storyline, language, tasks, or trading system) is made to an existing imported or domestic online game, it will be subject to a new content review. 23 Table of Contents Our online game business may be adversely affected by the Online Game Measures. The Online Game Measures do not set forth any specific procedure for the required filing and content review procedures for online games and therefore may cause delay when we try to file or apply for content review with the MOC. In addition, the Online Game Measures do not resolve certain inconsistencies and ambiguities resulting from pronouncements included in previous notices issued by SAPPRFT and the MOC. Due to the ambiguities here and elsewhere regarding the governmental departments, including SAPPRFT and the MOC, that have oversight of the online game industry, there may potentially be stricter and more abrupt scrutiny of our operations. If any of our online game operating entities cannot comply with any of the stipulations of any PRC governmental department regarding the online game industry, we may be subject to various penalties and our online game business may be adversely affected. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the internet. Under these regulations, internet content providers and internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the internet any content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. When internet content providers and internet publishers, including online game operators, find that information falling within the above scope is transmitted on their websites or is stored in their electronic bulletin service systems, they are required to terminate the transmission of such information or delete such information immediately, keep records, and report to relevant authorities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the revocation of our ICP license and other required licenses and the closure of our websites. Website operators may also be held liable for prohibited information displayed on, retrieved from or linked to their websites. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for the actions of game players and others using their websites, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. As a result, we periodically make changes to our games based on feedback gathered from users and in order to comply with government regulations. For example, during the third quarter of 2009, we canceled several in-game monetization features in compliance with a virtual currency regulation issued by the Ministry of Culture, or MOC. The most important cancelled feature was the virtual treasure box, which contained in-game items worth more than the cost of the treasure box itself. We believe this change was the main reason for the subsequent temporary decrease in our active paying accounts, which fell by 7.9%, from approximately 1,204,000 during the second quarter of 2009 to approximately 1,108,000, during the third quarter of 2009. Future rule changes to our games could lead to declines in active paying accounts, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. As these regulations are subject to interpretation by the relevant authorities, it may not be possible for us to determine in all cases the type of content that could result in liability for us as an MMORPG developer and operator. In addition, we may not be able to control or restrict the content of other internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content generated or placed on our websites by our game players, despite our attempt to monitor such content. To the extent that regulatory authorities find any portion of our content objectionable, they may require us to curtail our games, which may reduce our game player base, the amount of time our games are played or the purchases of virtual items. Furthermore, the Administrative Measures for Content Self-review by Internet Culture Business Entities, or the Content Self-review Administrative Measure, which took effect in December 2013, require Internet culture business entities to review the content of products and services to be provided prior to providing such content and services to the public. The content management system of an Internet culture business entity is required to specify the responsibilities, standards and processes for content review as well as accountability measures, and is required be filed with the local provincial branch of the MOC. Compliance with the laws or regulations governing virtual currency may result in us having to obtain additional approvals or adversely affect our game operation revenues. 24 Table of Contents On February 15, 2007, the MOC, the PBOC and other relevant government authorities jointly issued the Notice Concerning Further Deepening Internet Cafés and Online Game Management. Under the Internet Cafés Notice, the PBOC is directed to strengthen the administration of virtual currency in online games to avoid any adverse impact on the economy and financial system. The Internet Cafés Notice provides that the total amount of virtual currency issued by online game operators and the amount purchased by individual game players should be strictly limited, with a strict and clear division between virtual transactions and real transactions carried out by way of electronic commerce. This notice also provides that virtual currency should only be used to purchase virtual items. In June 2009, the MOC and the Ministry of Commerce jointly published the Notice on Strengthening the Administration Work of the Virtual Currency in Online Games, or the Virtual Currency Notice, to require businesses that (i) issue online game virtual currency (in the form of prepaid cards and/or pre-payment or prepaid card points) or (ii) offer online game virtual currency transaction services to apply for approval from the MOC through its provincial branches within three months following the date of such notice. The Virtual Currency Notice prohibits businesses that issue online game virtual currency from providing services that would enable the trading of such virtual currency. Any business that fails to submit the requisite application will be subject to sanctions, including but not limited to warnings, mandatory corrective measures and fines. The Virtual Currency Notice also prohibits online game operators from allocating virtual items or virtual currency to players based on random selection through lucky draw, wager or lottery which involves cash or virtual currency directly paid by the players. In addition, the Virtual Currency Notice regulates, among other things, that game operators may not issue virtual currency to game players through means other than purchased by game players with legal currency. Moreover, any businesses that do not provide online game virtual currency transaction services are required to adopt technical measures to restrict the transfer of online game virtual currency among accounts of different game players. The MOC issued the Tentative Measures for Online Games Administrative, or the Online Game Measures, in June 2010, which provides, among other things, that virtual currency issued by online game operators may only be used in exchange for the operator’s own online game products and services and may not be used to pay for the products and services of other entities. The above restrictions may limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and business prospects. The PRC State Administration of Taxation has also previously announced that it will tax game players on the income derived from the trading of virtual currencies at the rate of 20%. However, it is currently unclear how the tax will be collected or if there will be any effect on our game players or our business, but collection of such a tax might discourage players who are interested in trading virtual currencies from playing our games, which could reduce our revenues. Moreover, similar adverse public reaction may arise, and similar government policies may be adopted, in other jurisdictions where we license or operate our games, which could similarly adversely affect our revenues. There are currently no laws or regulations in the PRC governing virtual asset property rights and therefore it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have relating to the loss of virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our players’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. Such virtual assets can be highly valued by online game players and in some cases are traded between players for actual money or real assets. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, such as data loss caused by delay of network service or by a network crash. There are currently no PRC laws and regulations governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, it is unclear who the legal owner of virtual assets is and whether the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In addition, it is unclear under PRC law whether an operator of online games such as us would have any liability (whether in contract, tort or otherwise) for loss of such virtual assets by game players. Although we have not been sued by any game players for the loss of any virtual assets, including virtual currency, court cases involving the loss of virtual assets by other game operators in the PRC suggest that online game operators might not be held liable for losses, but instead only required to improve security systems. However, in the event of a loss of virtual assets involving our online games, it is possible that we may be sued by game players and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by public opinion and government policies in China. Due to a relatively high degree of game player loyalty, easy access to personal computers and internet cafés, and the lack of other appealing forms of entertainment in China, many teenagers in China frequently play online games. This may result in these teenagers spending less time on or refraining from other activities, including their school work or other educational activities, which could result in adverse public reaction and stricter government regulation. For example, the PRC government has promulgated anti-fatigue-related regulations to limit the amount of time minors can play online games. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business — Our operations may be adversely affected by a broadening of the addiction-related regulations.” 25 Table of Contents The PRC government has also tightened its regulations on internet cafés, currently one of the primary places where online games are played, including prohibiting minors from using internet cafés, limiting the issuance of internet café operating licenses, and imposing higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of internet cafés. See “Risk Factors — Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business — Intensified government regulation of internet cafés could limit our ability to maintain or increase our net revenues and expand our customer base.” In addition, in January 2011, MIIT and seven other central government authorities jointly issued a circular pursuant to which online game operators are required to maintain a communication system that parents can use to monitor the activities of their children and to suspend their child’s online game account upon request. Additional government regulations, whether issued in response to adverse public opinion or otherwise, could be issued in the future and may have a material and adverse effect upon our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our operations may be adversely affected by a broadening of the addiction-related regulations. The PRC government may decide to adopt more stringent policies to combat perceived addiction to online games, including by broadening the anti-addition system rules to cover adult players or adopting additional rules to protect minors. On April 15, 2007, eight PRC government authorities, including SAPPRFT, the Ministry of Education and the MIIT issued a Notice on the Implementation of Online Game Anti-Addiction System to Protect the Physical and Psychological Health of Minors, or the Anti-Addiction Notice, requiring all PRC game operators to adopt an “anti-addiction system” in an effort to curb addiction to online games by minors. Under the anti-addiction system, three hours or less of continuous play is defined to be “healthy,” three to five hours is defined to be “fatiguing,” and five hours or more is defined to be “unhealthy.” Game operators are required to reduce the value of game benefits for minor players by half when those players reach the “fatigue” level, and to zero when they reach the “unhealthy” level. In addition, online game players in China are now required to register their identity card numbers before they can play an online game, which allows game operators to identify which players are minors. Failure to comply with the requirements under the Anti-Addiction Notice may subject us to penalties, including but not limited to suspension of our operation of online games, revocation of our licenses and approvals for our operations, rejection or suspension of our application for approvals, licenses, or filings for any new game, or prohibiting us from operating any new game. Although we currently do not permit minors to play our online games, if these restrictions are expanded to apply to adult players in the future, they could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. On July 1, 2011, eight PRC government authorities, including the SAPPRFT, the Ministry of Education, MIIT and five others, promulgated a further notice to strengthen the implementation of the anti-addiction system and real-name registration, entitled the Notice on Initializing the verification of Real-Name Registration for Anti-Addiction System on Internet Games, or the Real-Name Registration Notice, which took effect on October 1, 2011. The Real-Name Registration Notice’s main focus is to prevent minors from using an adult’s ID to play internet games and, accordingly, the notice provides more stringent punishment for online game operators for not implementing the anti-addiction and real name registration measures properly and effectively. The most severe punishment contemplated by the Real-Name Registration Notice includes suspension of operation of online games, revocation of game operator’s licenses and approvals, rejection or suspension of game operator’s application for approvals, licenses, or filings for any new game if such game operator is found to be in violation of any of the government issued notices including the Anti-Addiction Notice and the Real-Name Registration Notice. The Real-Name Registration Notice further increases our operating risks, as we will be required to allocate more resources to real-name verification and anti-addiction systems, which may lead to an increase in operating costs. In addition, if we are found to be violating the Real-Name Registration Notice, we may be required to suspend or discontinue our online game operations. In February 2013, 15 PRC government authorities, including the GAPP, the Ministry of Education, the MOC and the MIIT, jointly issued the Work Plan for the Integrated Prevention of Minors Online Game Addiction, or the Work Plan, implementing integrated measures by different authorities to prevent minors from being addicted to online games. Under the Work Plan, the current relevant regulations will be further clarified and additional implementation rules will be issued by relevant authorities. As a result, we may have to impose more stringent limits for minor game players, which may lead to an increase in our operating expenses and a reduction in our revenues from minor game players. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burdens and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. 26 Table of Contents In October 2005, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, promulgated a Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fundraising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which states that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. In addition, SAFE has further issued a series of implementation guidances, including the most recent Notice on of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Further Improving and Adjusting Foreign Exchange Administration Policies for Direct Investment, or Circular 59 and Notice of the General Affairs Department of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Issuing the Operation Rules for the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Relevant Issues about Foreign Exchange Control over the Financing and Return Investment of Domestic Residents through Overseas Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 106. Circular 59 and Circular 106 standardize more specific and stringent supervision on the registration and supplemental registration for established special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, relating to Notice 75. In addition, Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration of Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Equity Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Circular 7 requires registration with SAFE of stock options granted by overseas listed companies to any PRC individuals. Under these regulations, a PRC resident’s failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulations may result in fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, such as limitations on the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our shareholders who are subject to the regulations comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Notice 75 or other related rules. Any failure by any of our shareholders who are PRC residents, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ abilities to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in our PRC subsidiaries. Our holding company structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends and other payments from, or transfer funds to, our PRC entities, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our PRC entities in a timely manner. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our PRC entities. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity by our PRC entities for our cash requirements, including the funds to pay dividends on the ordinary shares underlying our ADSs. Under PRC laws and regulations, each PRC entity is only permitted to pay dividends out of its retained earnings, and each PRC entity is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit for its general reserves until the cumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, each PRC entity is restricted from transferring a portion of its assets to us as dividends, loans or advances, which restricted portion, including registered capital and the statutory reserve funds of the PRC entities, amounted to approximately RMB368.8 million, RMB404.7 million and RMB386.4 million (US$63.8 million), or 14.8%, 12.6% and, 10.8% of our total consolidated net assets as of December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC entities to transfer funds to us as dividends, loans or advances could materially and adversely limit our ability to pay dividends and to make offshore investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business. In addition, any funds we transfer to our PRC subsidiaries, either as a shareholder loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. Furthermore, each of our PRC entities is prohibited by PRC law from directly lending money to one another. Therefore, it is difficult to change our capital expenditure plans once the relevant funds have been remitted from our company to our PRC entities. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC entities could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our PRC entities on a timely basis. We have not registered license agreements for all of our internationally exported games with the relevant PRC governmental authorities, which may result in certain restrictions that could impair our ability to expand our business internationally. 27 Table of Contents Under the Software Export Administration and Statistic Measures, issued by several PRC agencies on October 25, 2001, all agreements which relate to the export of technology are required to be registered with the relevant PRC government authorities. In addition, the Measures for the Administration of Registration of Technology Import and Export Contracts, issued by the MOFCOM in February 2009, also specify registration requirements related to the export of technology. Under the Regulations on Administration of Import and Export of Technologies promulgated by the State Council, “an export of technology” is defined to include, among other things, the transfer or licensing of patents and know-how, and the provision of services related to technology. We have entered into license agreements with third parties to operate our games internationally, which may be deemed to constitute the export of technology under the applicable PRC regulations. As a result, such licenses might need to be registered with the applicable PRC government authorities. Although the applicable regulations do not indicate what penalties might be applied for non-compliance, failure to register an agreement where such registration is required may result in restrictions concerning foreign exchange, banking and taxation matters relating to such agreements. We have not registered all of the game license agreements under which we authorize overseas third-parties to operate our online games, and if the above restrictions apply to our overseas game license agreements, our ability to license our games overseas may be impaired, and our business, financial condition and results of operations might be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to China There are uncertainties regarding the future growth of the online game industry in China. The online game industry, from which we derive substantially all of our revenues, is a relatively new and evolving industry. The growth of the online game industry and the level of demand and market acceptance of our games are subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors affecting the online game industry, many of which are beyond our control, including; (i) whether recent declines in the use of personal computers in general, and for purposes of accessing online games in particular, continue or accelerate in China and other markets in which we offer our games; (ii) the growth of mobile device (such as smart phones and tablets), internet and broadband users and penetration in China and other markets in which we offer our games, and the rate of any such growth; (iii) whether the online game industry, particularly in China and the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, continues to grow and the rate of any such growth;(iv) general economic conditions in China, particularly economic conditions adversely affecting discretionary consumer spending, such as the slowdown in China’s economic growth that occurred between the first quarter of 2010 and the third quarter of 2012; (v) the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly games of console systems, which are already popular in developed countries and may gain popularity in China; and (vi) changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences. There is no assurance that online games will continue to be popular in China or elsewhere. A decline in the popularity of online games would adversely affect our business and prospects. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by a slowdown in China’s economic growth rates. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are sourced from China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations are influenced by economic and other developments in China. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. In addition, the rate of economic growth in China as reported by the National Bureau of Statistics has declined in recent years and may continue to decline in the near future, which may have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Risk of a material slowdown in China’s economic growth rate is based on several current or emerging factors including: (i) overinvestment by the government and businesses and excessive credit offered by banks; (ii) a rudimentary monetary policy; (iii) excessive privileges to state-owned enterprises at the expense of private enterprises; (iv) the dwindling supply of surplus labor; (v) a decrease in exports due to weaker demand overseas; and (vi) failure to boost domestic consumption. Although we are uncertain about the extent to which the potential rapid slowdown of China’s economic growth may impact our business in the short term and long term, there is a risk that our business, results of operations and prospects would be materially and adversely affected by a continued slowdown of China’s growth rate. 28 Table of Contents The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The effect of legislation adopted over the past three decades has generally enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is a foreign-invested enterprise incorporated in China and therefore is subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement are subject to the discretion of PRC administrative and court authorities. Accordingly, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy in China than in more developed legal systems. Furthermore, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us, and our foreign investors, including you. Contract drafting, interpretation and enforcement in China involve significant uncertainty. We have entered into numerous contracts governed by PRC law, many of which are material to our business. As compared with contracts in the United States, contracts governed by PRC law tend to contain less detail and are not as comprehensive in defining contracting parties’ rights and obligations. As a result, contracts in China are more vulnerable to disputes and legal challenges. In addition, contract interpretation and enforcement in China is not as developed as in the United States, and the result of any contract dispute is subject to significant uncertainties. Therefore, we may be subject to disputes under our material contracts, and if such disputes arise, we may not prevail. Due to the materiality of certain contracts to our business, any dispute involving such contracts, even without merit, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and our business operations, and may cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies may limit our ability to pay dividends in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. Substantially all of our net revenues are currently generated in Renminbi. China’s government imposes control over the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on rates announced by the People’s Bank of China. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use net revenues generated in Renminbi to pay dividends in U.S. dollars or fund possible business activities outside China. Although the PRC government introduced the Foreign Exchange Administration Rules in 1996, as amended in August 2008, to allow greater convertibility of Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, remittance of foreign currencies abroad and conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to government approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot assure you the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of Renminbi in the future. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on the laws of the United States or other foreign jurisdictions, against us, our management or the experts named in this annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our directors and executive officers reside within greater China including Hong Kong. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon some of our directors and senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. It would also be difficult for investors to bring an original lawsuit against us or our directors or executive officers before a PRC court based on U.S. federal securities laws. 29 Table of Contents Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, was historically based on exchange rates set by the PBOC. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi solely to the U.S. dollar. Under this revised policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi has appreciated approximately 27% against the U.S. dollar as of the end of 2013. Substantially all of our revenues and costs are denominated in Renminbi. Any additional significant appreciation of the Renminbi may materially inflate our revenues and earnings as expressed in U.S. dollars without reflecting any material change in our results of operations. The audit report included in this annual report was prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, our investors are deprived of the benefits of such inspection Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditors are located in the Peoples’ Republic of China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. We may be adversely affected by the proceedings instituted recently by the SEC against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm. In December 2012, the SEC instituted proceedings under Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the SEC’s Rules of Practice against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ work papers related to their audits of certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) grants to the SEC the authority to deny to any person, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC who is found by the SEC, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any such laws or rules and regulations. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, four of these PRC-based accounting firms appealed this decision. Accordingly, the sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. We are not involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. However, our independent registered public accounting firm is one of the four accounting firms subject to the six month suspension from practicing before the SEC in the initial administrative law decision. We may therefore be adversely affected by the outcome of the proceedings, along with other U.S.-listed companies audited by these accounting firms. 30 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile which could result in a loss to shareholders. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Since we completed our initial public offering on November 6, 2007, the closing price of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange has ranged from US$3.15 to US$19.2 per ADS and the last reported closing price on April 25, 2014 was US$11.74. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of competitive developments; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies with comparable businesses; • negative market and investor perception in response to recent accounting irregularities at other PRC companies listed in the U.S.; • regulatory developments in China affecting us, our industry, our corporate structure or our advertisers; • announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • addition or departure of our executive officers; • issuance of material dividends; • sales or perceived sales of additional common shares or ADSs; and • failure to complete the going private transaction that we entered into in March 2014. For example, on September 12, 2011, the trading price of our ADS declined from US$8.00 to US$4.61, which was primarily due to a special cash dividend of US$3 per ADS that we issued to our shareholders as of record August 31, 2011. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares are held by a small number of our existing shareholders, and these shareholders may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of their shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. As of April 10, 2014, Yuzhu Shi, our founder and chairman, beneficially owned approximately 44.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, Mr. Shi has significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and schemes of arrangement, election and removal of directors and other significant corporate actions. Mr. Shi may not act in the best interests of our minority shareholders and may take actions even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Shi, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that might be beneficial to us. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our ADSs. 31 Table of Contents A consortium including our chairman, Mr. Yuzhu Shi, entered into an agreement and plan of merger with us on March 17, 2014, pursuant to which they are expected to acquire all of our outstanding ordinary shares not currently owned by Mr. Shi and other consortium members. The consortium members’ share ownership in our company effectively prevents a competing bid for our company by other potential acquirers, which may be against your best interests. Potential uncertainty involving the going private transaction contemplated thereby may adversely affect our business and the market price of our ADSs. See “Risk Factors — Risks related to Our ADSs — Potential uncertainty or disputes involving the going private transaction may adversely affect our business and the market price of our ADSs.” We may not consummate the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement or may suffer adverse effects in our efforts to close the transactions it contemplates. On March 17, 2014, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Giant Investment Limited, or the Parent, and Giant Merger Limited, or the Merger Sub, to effectuate a going private proposal, or the Transactions. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub would merge with and into us, and we would survive as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. In connection with and at the effective time of the merger, each of our ordinary shares and ADSs outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger would be cancelled in consideration for the right to receive US$12.00 in cash without interest, except for those shares beneficially owned by the rollover shareholders immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, which shares would be cancelled for no consideration at the effective time of the merger, subject to applicable dissenters rights. The Merger Agreement contains several closing conditions, including certain shareholder approvals and other covenants that may be difficult to perform, and confers certain termination rights. There can be no assurance that this or any other transaction will be approved or consummated on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, our efforts to close the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement may have any number of adverse effects on us, whether or not the transactions close, including: • our announcement or the pendency of the merger may adversely impact our business relationships, operating results and business generally; • our management’s attention may be diverted from our ongoing business operations; • we may incur substantial amounts of costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the merger and the actual terms of the financing that will be obtained for the merger; and • we may face heightened risks of litigation, regulatory proceedings or enforcement matters that may be instituted against us and others relating to the merger. In March and April 2014, we became aware that two complaints were filed by alleged holders of our ADSs against us, members of our board of directors, Parent and Merger Sub in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in connection with the Transactions. The lawsuits are purported class actions brought on behalf of all holders of our ADSs and are captioned Tripp v. Giant Interactive Group Inc., et. al and Palkon v. Giant Interactive Group Inc., et al. The representative plaintiffs allege, among other things, that members of our board breached fiduciary duties in connection with the proposed Transactions, which plaintiffs allege do not appropriately value our company, were the result of an inadequate process overseen by conflicted directors and include preclusive deal protection devices. The lawsuits also claim that we, Parent and Merger Sub aided and abetted these violations. The complaints purport to seek, among other things, an injunction against the consummation of the Transactions and rescission in the event that the Transactions are consummated prior to the entry of the court’s final judgment, an award of unspecified damages, costs and expenses, including attorneys’ and experts’ fees and expenses, and such other equitable relief that the court deems just and proper. On or about April 22, 2014, we became aware that a third class action complaint captioned Sutherland, et al. v. Giant Interactive Group Inc., et al (case no. 14 CV 2826) was filed on behalf of all holders of ADSs in the same court against us, our directors, Giant Investment Limited, Giant Merger Limited, Baring Private Equity Asia and Hony Capital Fund V, L.P., alleging that the proxy statement filed by us in connection with the proposed going private transaction is materially false and misleading and therefore violates Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We and our board believe that the claims in these complaints are without merit and intend to defend against them vigorously. An adverse judgment for monetary damages could have an adverse effect on our operations and liquidity. A preliminary injunction could delay or jeopardize the completion of the Transactions, and an adverse judgment granting permanent injunctive relief could indefinitely enjoin completion of the merger. We have been named as a defendant in certain purported shareholder class action lawsuits that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents We will need to defend against lawsuits described in “Item 8. Financial Information — A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings,” including any appeals of such lawsuits should our initial defense be successful. We are currently unable to estimate the possible loss or possible range of loss, if any, associated with the resolution of these lawsuits. An unfavorable outcome from the lawsuits, including any plaintiff’s appeal of the judgment in these lawsuits, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in the future. The litigation process may utilize a material portion of our cash resources and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our company, all of which could harm our business. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in any such appeal and any adverse outcome of these cases could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Depending upon the value of our ADSs or ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We will be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year if either: (a) the average quarterly value of our gross assets that produce passive income, or are held for the production of passive income, is at least 50% of the average quarterly value of our total gross assets, or (b) 75% or more of our gross income for the taxable year is passive income. According to these technical rules, we would likely become a PFIC for a given taxable year if our market capitalization were to decrease significantly while we hold substantial cash and cash equivalents in that year. We believe that we were not a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2013. However the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for such year. As such, although we intend to conduct our business activities in a manner to reduce the risk of our classification as a PFIC in the future, as we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, there can be no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC for 2014 or any future taxable year. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. See “Item 10, — Additional Information — Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — Passive foreign investment company.” Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which they relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless both the rights and any related securities are registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests through the U.S. federal courts. Shareholders may have less protection of their shareholder rights than they would if we were incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. In addition, shareholders may have difficulties in enforcing judgments obtained against us because our operations are based in the PRC. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by non-controlling shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from the English common law, which has persuasive but not binding authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in the federal courts of the United States. Moreover, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. Substantially all of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon us or these persons. 33 Table of Contents The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize as a valid judgment a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) or, in certain circumstances, an in personam judgment for non-monetary relief, and would give a judgment based thereon provided that (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment, (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands, (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud, (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands, (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands, and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Finally, we conduct all of our operations in the PRC through our subsidiaries and affiliated entities established in the PRC. As mentioned above, all of our directors and officers also reside outside the United States and a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for shareholders to enforce a judgement or bring an action against us or against these individuals in the event that they believe that shareholders’ rights have been infringed under the applicable securities laws or otherwise. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state due to the lack of a reciprocal treaty in the PRC providing statutory recognition of judgments obtained in the United States. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether such PRC courts would accept original actions brought in the PRC against us or such persons who reside outside the United States predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. For more information regarding the relevant laws of the PRC, see “Item 3. Key Information — Risk Factors — Risks Relating to China — The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited in several significant ways by the terms of the deposit agreement. Holders of our ADSs may only exercise their voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions from a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is five days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter at the meeting. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to timely provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition as to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders; or • voting at the meeting is made on a show of hands. 34 Table of Contents The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. Shareholders may be subject to limitations on transfer of ADSs. ADSs, represented by American depositary receipts, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is necessary or advisable to do so in connection with the performance of its duties under the deposit agreement, including due to any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement. 