D. Risk Factors — Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure — The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us.” on page 23. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government determines that the agreements establishing the structure for operating our China business do not comply with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties including being prohibited from continuing our operations in the PRC. The PRC government requires any foreign entities that invest in the advertising services industry to have at least two years of direct operations in the advertising industry outside of China. We have not directly operated any advertising business outside of China and therefore, we currently do not qualify under PRC regulations to directly provide advertising services. In addition, the March 2006 Notice prohibits foreign investment in any mobile digital television operating company in China. We are a Cayman Islands corporation and a foreign legal person under Chinese laws. Accordingly, our subsidiary, China Digital Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., or CDTC, which is a wholly-owned foreign enterprise established by us on March 9, 2006, is currently ineligible to apply for the required licenses to directly provide advertising services in China. CDTC is an intermediate holding company that consolidates the operating results generated by our consolidated affiliated entities in a manner that complies with PRC rules and regulations. It is authorized to engage in businesses such as, but not limited to, technical development and technical consultancy services in connection with digital visual and audio equipment. Our advertising business is currently provided through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China, which hold the requisite licenses to provide advertising services in China. One of our consolidated affiliated entities, VisionChina Media Group, is currently owned by Limin Li and Yanqing Liang. We do not have any equity interest in VisionChina Media Group but we receive the economic benefits of it through various contractual arrangements. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions.” In January 2010, we completed our acquisition of Digital Media Group, which operated and continues to operate, its advertising business through its consolidated affiliated entity in China, Beijing Eastlong Advertising. Beijing Eastlong Advertising is currently owned by Men Qijun and Wang Haifeng. Digital Media Group does not have any equity interest in Beijing Eastlong Advertising, but receives the economic benefits and bear economic risks of it through various contractual arrangements. Our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries directly operate our advertising network, enter into direct investment and exclusive and non-exclusive advertising agency agreements, and sell advertising time to our clients. We have been and expect to continue to be dependent on our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries to operate our advertising business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws, rules and regulations, including but not limited to the laws, rules and regulations governing the validity and enforcement of our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities. Although we have been advised by our PRC counsel that the structure for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders) complies with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and does not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view that is contrary to the above opinion of our PRC counsel, and determine that our corporate structure and contractual arrangements violate PRC laws, rules or regulations. We have been further advised by our PRC counsel that if the PRC government determines that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our PRC advertising businesses do not comply with applicable restrictions on foreign investment in the advertising industry or the mobile digital televisions industry, we may be subject to severe penalties including, among other things, being prohibited from continuing our operations in the PRC. 21 Table of Contents If we, our consolidated affiliated entities or any of their current or future subsidiaries, our direct investment entities, or our local operating partners are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities, including the SAIC and SARFT, would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of such entities; • discontinuing or restricting the conduct of any transactions among our consolidated affiliated entities, our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities; • imposing fines, confiscating the income of our consolidated affiliated entities or our income, or imposing other requirements with which we, our consolidated affiliated entities, our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated entities may not be able to comply; • shutting down the network of our consolidated affiliated entities; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiary and affiliated entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations; or The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business and our financial condition and results of operations. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China, and their equity holders, which may not be as effective in providing us with operational control or enabling us to derive economic benefits as through ownership of controlling equity interest. We have in the past relied, and will continue in the future to rely, on contractual arrangements with VisionChina Media Group, one of our consolidated affiliated entities in China, and its shareholders to operate our advertising business. In January 2010, we completed our acquisition of Digital Media Group, which operated, and will continue to operate, its advertising business through contractual arrangements with Beijing Eastlong Advertising and its equity holders. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as ownership of controlling equity interest would be in providing us with control over, or enabling us to derive economic benefits from the operations of, our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries. If we had direct ownership of our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries, we would be able to exercise our rights as a shareholder to (i) effect changes in the board of directors of those entities, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level, and (ii) derive economic benefits from the operations of our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries by causing our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries to declare and pay dividends. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries or any of their respective equity holders fails to perform their, his or her respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure you will be effective. For example, if equity holders of VisionChina Media Group were to refuse to transfer their equity interests in VisionChina Media Group to us or our designated persons when we exercise the purchase option pursuant to these contractual arrangements, we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. We expect to continue to depend upon our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their subsidiaries and their equity holders to operate our advertising business in China due to the PRC regulatory restrictions on foreign investments in our industry. If (i) the applicable PRC authorities invalidate these contractual arrangements for violation of PRC laws, rules and regulations, (ii) our consolidated affiliated entities or their subsidiaries terminate these contractual arrangements or (iii) our consolidated affiliated entities or their subsidiaries fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we would not be able to continue our business operations in China or to derive economic benefits from operations of our consolidated affiliated entities or their subsidiaries, and the value of your ADSs would substantially decrease. Further, if we fail to renew these contractual arrangements upon their expiration, we would not be able to continue our business operations unless the then current PRC law allows us to directly operate advertising businesses in China. In addition, through an Equity Pledge Agreement, our consolidated entities encumber all or part of their assets with liens. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions —Agreements that Provide Us Effective Control over VisionChina Media Group and its Subsidiaries.” If our consolidated affiliated entities or all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could severely disrupt our business and cause grave damaging effects on our financial condition and results of operations. If one of our consolidated affiliated entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its equity holders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of the assets of that consolidated affiliated entity, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business or derive economic benefits from that consolidated affiliated entity and its subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of your ADSs. The contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in some other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exercise effective control over our operating entities, and we may be precluded from operating our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If VisionChina Media Group or Beijing Eastlong Advertising fails to honor its obligations under the contractual arrangements with us, our advertising business may be severely and adversely affected. Chinese laws and regulations prohibit or restrict foreign ownership of media content and advertising business. To comply with these foreign ownership restrictions, we invest in ventures with local television stations and provide advertising services on our out-of-home digital television networks in the PRC through VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising, both PRC legal entities. VisionChina Media Group was established by our co-founders, and Beijing Eastlong Advertising was established by Haifeng Wang and Qiujun Men. The paid-in capital of VisionChina Media Group was funded by us or CDTC through a loan extended to the co-founders. CDTC has entered into certain exclusive agreements with VisionChina Media Group, which obligate us to absorb a majority of the risk of loss from VisionChina Media Group’s activities and entitle us to receive a majority of its residual returns. In addition, we, through CDTC, has entered into certain agreements with the two individuals, including a loan agreement for the paid-in capital of VisionChina Media Group described above, an option agreement to acquire the shareholding in VisionChina Media Group when permitted by the PRC laws, and a share pledge agreement for the shares in VisionChina Media Group held by the co-founders. As provided by these agreements, all raised disputes are subject to PRC court proceedings. Similarly, the paid-in capital of Beijing Eastlong Advertising was funded by Beijing Eastlong Technology, which became our wholly owned subsidiary subsequent to our acquisition of Digital Media Group in 2010, through loans extended to its equity holders. Beijing Eastlong Technology Development Co., Ltd., or Beijing Eastlong Technology has entered into certain exclusive agreements with Beijing Eastlong Advertising, which obligate us to absorb a majority of the risk of loss from Beijing Eastlong Advertising’s activities and entitle us to receive a majority of its residual returns. In addition, Beijing Eastlong Technology, has entered into certain agreements with the two individual equity holders, including a loan agreement for the paid-in capital of Beijing Eastlong Advertising described above and an option agreement to acquire the equity interest in Beijing Eastlong Advertising when permitted by the PRC laws. As provided by these agreements, all raised disputes are subject to PRC court proceedings. The major difference between binding arbitration and court proceedings in the PRC is that PRC arbitration judgments are binding, enforceable and may not be appealed, whereas the PRC court judgments are subject to appeal to the People’s Court of Appeal. According to the Civil Procedure Laws of the PRC, each party to a dispute in its first trial is entitled to appeal within the statutory time limit, and the court shall hear all appeals once the case is filed in the second instance. Before the appeal is heard, the people’s court of the first trial shall serve copies of the appeal petition on the respondent within five days of receiving an appeal petition, and the respondent shall submit its defense in writing within 15 days of receiving such copies of the appeal petition. Failure by the respondent to submit a defense shall not prevent the case from being tried by the people’s court. In trying an appealed case against a judgment, the people’s court shall make a final judgment within three months of the case being filed in the second instance; in trying an appealed case against an order, the people’s court shall make a final order within 30 days of the case being filed in the second instance. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — B. Related Party Transactions” for a detailed description of these contractual arrangements. Based on these contractual arrangements, we believe that VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising should be each considered as a variable interest entity, or VIE, under Financial Accounting Standards Board, Accounting Standards Codification 810, Consolidation, because the equity investors in VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest and we, through CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, are the primary beneficiary of VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising. We and CDTC hold all the variable interests of VisionChina Media Group, and we and CDTC have been determined to be the most closely associated with VisionChina Media Group. We and Beijing Eastlong Technology hold all the variable interests of Beijing Eastlong Advertising, and we and Beijing Eastlong Technology have been determined to be the most closely associated with Beijing Eastlong Advertising. Therefore, we are the primary beneficiary of both VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising. Accordingly, we consolidate VisionChina Media Group and Beijing Eastlong Advertising. These contractual arrangements enable us to exercise effective control over VisionChina Media Group and its subsidiaries and receive substantially all of the economic benefits of VisionChina Media Group and its subsidiaries for a remaining period of 21 years. If VisionChina Media Group fails to comply with its obligation under the foregoing contractual arrangement, such non-performance may have adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, the contractual arrangements enable us to exercise effective control over Beijing Eastlong Advertising and its subsidiaries and receive substantially all of the economic benefits of Beijing Eastlong Advertising and its subsidiaries for a remaining period of five years. If Beijing Eastlong Advertising fails to comply with its obligation under the foregoing contractual arrangement, such non-performance may have adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us. The beneficial owners of VisionChina Media Group are also the founders of our company and own a substantial portion of our common shares. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as beneficial owners of both VisionChina Media Group and our company may arise. The shareholders of Beijing Eastlong Advertising were the founders of Digital Media Group. Their interests may diverge from those of our company, particularly after the completion of our acquisition of Digital Media Group in January 2010. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause the applicable consolidated affiliated entity to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements, which will have a material adverse effect on our ability to effectively control that consolidated entity and receive economic benefits from it. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the equity holders of our consolidated affiliated entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, the outcome of which is uncertain and which could be disruptive to our business. Our company and its wholly owned subsidiary, Vision Best Limited, filed a summons with notice in the Supreme Court of the State of New York on December 27, 2010 against the selling shareholders of Digital Media Group. The summons and notice alleged that the selling shareholders of Digital Media Group engaged in an unlawful scheme to induce our company, through false, deceptive, and misleading statements concerning Digital Media Group’s financial condition and performance, to pay a grossly inflated price to purchase Digital Media Group in 2010, and has received, or is scheduled to receive, ill-gotten gains from this unlawful scheme. In the summons and notice we further claimed for indemnification from the escrow fund that was established at the time of the purchase as a result of the selling shareholders’ breaches of representations and warranties contained in the merger agreement. According to the summons and notice, our company and Vision Best Limited are seeking relief including: a declaration that we are not obligated to pay further installments totaling US$60 million in consideration for the acquisition; a declaration that our company and Vision Best Limited are not obligated to pay any unpaid escrowed cash or shares into the escrow fund and ordering that such cash or shares be returned to our company and Vision Best Limited; restitution of all cash and stock wrongfully received by the defendants as a result of the unlawful scheme; compensatory damages from the selling shareholders of Digital Media Group in an amount to be determined at trial but not less than US$80 million; punitive damages from the selling shareholders of Digital Media Group in an amount to be determined at trial; and interest, attorneys’ fees and disbursements, costs, and other relief that the court deems just and proper. On February 25, 2011, a counter-suit was filed by some of the selling shareholders of Digital Media Group, or Former Digital Media Group Shareholders, against the lawsuit filed by our company on December 27, 2010. The complaint alleged that our company breached certain agreements related to the acquisition of Digital Media Group, by allegedly declining to make certain installment payments that the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders claim they were entitled to receive, and allegedly declining to take other actions to facilitate the transfer of our company’s stock that the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders are entitled to receive in connection with the acquisition of Digital Media Group. The Former Digital Media Group Shareholders were also seeking specific enforcement of the contracts at issue, compensatory damages in an amount to be determined at trial, permanent and preliminary injunctive relief and such other relief as the court deems just and proper. Also on February 25, 2011, the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders filed two motions against our company and Vision Best Limited along with their counter-suit. They submitted a motion for attachment, seeking an order of attachment in the amount of $30 million against our company and Vision Best Limited and directing us to transfer assets into the State of New York to satisfy a prospective judgment. They also filed a motion for a preliminary injunction to order our company and Vision Best Limited to remove the restrictive legend on certain our company’s stock received by the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders in connection with the acquisition, and to provide consents or authorizations required to convert our company’s stock that the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders are entitled to receive into American Depository Shares and make them freely tradable. We believe that the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders’ claims and related motions are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the claims and oppose the motions. Accordingly, no provision for loss contingencies was recorded in connection with the litigation with the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders in our consolidated financial statements. The motions were presented to the Supreme Court of the State of New York on May 25, 2011. No decision has been reached by court regarding the initial filing by our company and the counter suit by the Former Digital Media Group Shareholders as of June 30, 2011. Our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and may result in a finding that we owe additional taxes or are ineligible for tax exemption, or both, which could substantially increase our taxes owed and thereby reduce our net income. Under applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audits or challenges by the PRC tax authorities. Neither we nor our PRC counsel are able to determine whether any of these transactions will be regarded by the PRC tax authorities as arm’s length transactions because, based on our knowledge, the PRC tax authorities have not issued a ruling or interpretation in respect of the type of transaction structure similar to ours. The relevant tax authorities may determine that our contractual relationships with our consolidated affiliate entities and their equity holders were not entered into on an arm’s length basis. If any of the transactions between one of our wholly owned subsidiaries in China and a consolidated affiliated entity, and its equity holders, including our contractual relationships with that consolidated affiliated entity, are determined not to have been entered into on an arm’s length basis, or are found to result in an impermissible reduction in taxes under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities may adjust the profits and losses of that consolidated affiliated entity and assess more taxes on it. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment surcharges and other penalties to that consolidated affiliated entity for underpaid taxes. Our operating results may be materially and adversely affected if the tax liabilities of a consolidated affiliated entity increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment surcharges or other penalties. 23 Table of Contents We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly-owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC operating subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If one of our PRC operating subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may require us to adjust our taxable income under the contractual arrangements our PRC operating subsidiaries currently have in place with our consolidated affiliated entities in a manner that would materially and adversely affect our PRC operating subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws, rules and regulations permit payments of dividends by our PRC operating subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund specific reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, the statutory general reserve fund requires annual appropriations of 10% of after-tax income to be set aside prior to payment of dividends until the cumulative fund reaches 50% of the registered capital. The statutory general reserve fund is used to make up for losses and not allowed to be distributed as cash dividends. To the extent it has not complied with these requirements, a company shall be ordered to the statutory reserve fund and may be fined a maximum to RMB 200,000 penalty and shareholders must return the distributed profits to company. As a result of these PRC laws, rules and regulations, our PRC operating subsidiaries are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to us whether in the form of dividends, loans or advances. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC operating subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends or otherwise fund and conduct our business. Historically, our PRC wholly owned subsidiaries, CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology did not pay dividends to us from its accumulated profits. Our management believes that it will be able to pay dividends to us from CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, but our management does not have any present plan for receiving dividends from our PRC operating subsidiaries including CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology. Currently we plan to use all our retained profits in our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliates, including CDTC and Beijing Eastlong Technology, to reinvest for our future business expansion. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • the degree of government involvement; • the level of development; • the growth rate; • the control of foreign exchange; • access to financing; and • the allocation of resources. 24 Table of Contents While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth by allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike in common law systems, prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities established in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involves uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult than in more developed legal systems to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy. These uncertainties may impede our ability to enforce the contracts we have entered into with our business partners, customers and suppliers. In addition, such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Furthermore, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and management attention. You may experience difficulties effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws, against us, our management or the experts named in this annual report. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers, such as our Chief Executive Officer, Limin Li, our Chief Development Officer, Haijun Liu, and our Vice President of Finance, Yan Wang, reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon us or our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of legal judgments. 25 Table of Contents PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiary and affiliates. As an offshore holding company of our PRC operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities, we may make loans to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities, or we may make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities in China are subject to PRC regulations and approvals. For example: • loans by us to foreign invested enterprises, such as our PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts; and • loans by us to domestic PRC enterprises, such as our consolidated affiliated entities, must be approved by the relevant government authorities and must also be registered with SAFE or its local counterparts. We may also decide to finance our PRC operating subsidiaries by means of capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOC, or its local counterpart. Because our PRC operating subsidiaries and their subsidiaries are domestic PRC enterprises, we are not likely to finance their activities by means of capital contributions due to regulatory issues relating to foreign investment in domestic PRC enterprises, as well as licensing and other regulatory issues. We cannot assure you that we can obtain these government registrations or approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our consolidated affiliated entities or any of their subsidiaries. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected, which would adversely and materially affect our liquidity and our ability to expand our business. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an “offshore special purpose company.” PRC residents who are shareholders of offshore special purpose companies established before November 1, 2005 were required to register with the local SAFE branch before March 31, 2006. The SAFE notice further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the offshore special purpose company, including an initial public offering by such company. Limin Li and Yanqing Liang, our shareholders who are PRC citizens, have registered with the local SAFE branch as required by the SAFE notice and are required to amend their registration to reflect recent developments of our company and our PRC subsidiary. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely fashion pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiary, limit the ability of our PRC subsidiary to distribute dividends to our company or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China promulgated the “Measure for the Administration of Individual Foreign Exchange,” and on January 5, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the implementation rules on those measures. Pursuant to these regulations, PRC citizens who have been granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through a qualified PRC agent which may be the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or share incentive plan. Foreign exchange income received from the sale of shares or dividends distributed by the overseas listed company must be remitted into a foreign currency account of such PRC citizen or be exchanged into Renminbi. Our PRC citizen employees who have been granted share options, or PRC optionees, are subject to these regulations. According to the Regulations on the Foreign Exchange System of the PRC, we or our PRC optionees may be assessed fines of up to RMB300,000 and legal or administrative sanctions for failure to comply with the provisions of the foreign exchange register administration. Our PRC counsel has advised that failure to comply with SAFE registration requirements by some of our PRC optionees would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 26 Table of Contents If any of our PRC affiliates becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding, we may lose the ability to use and enjoy those assets, which could reduce the size of our advertising network and materially and adversely affect our business, ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. To comply with PRC laws, rules and regulations relating to foreign ownership restrictions in the advertising business, we currently conduct our operations in China through contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their equity holders. As part of these arrangements, VisionChina Media Group, Beijing Eastlong Advertising and their subsidiaries hold some of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. If any of these entities becomes bankrupt and all or part of their assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our consolidated affiliated entities or any of their subsidiaries undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, their shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of their assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, our ability to generate revenues and the market price of our ADSs. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current corporate structure, our future cash requirements will be primarily satisfied by dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency-denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions and expenditures from trade related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. In addition, foreign currencies received under current account items can be retained or sold to financial institutions engaged in the foreign exchange settlement or sales business by complying with relevant regulations. However, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Similarly, approval from SAFE or its local branch is required if foreign currencies received in respect of capital account items is to be retained or sold to financial institutions engaged in the foreign exchange settlement or sales business. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuations in exchange rates of the Renminbi could materially affect our reported results of operations. The exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar, Euro and other foreign currencies are affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. As we rely on dividends paid to us by our operating subsidiary, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we would receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would have a positive or negative effect on our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Very limited hedging options are available in China to reduce exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be aggravated by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment currently available to us and the increase in the PRC enterprise income tax could decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliates are incorporated in the PRC and are governed by applicable PRC income tax laws and regulations. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, became effective on January 1, 2008. The implementation regulations under the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council became effective January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law and the implementation regulations, the PRC has adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a transition period for enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, that received preferential tax treatments granted by relevant tax authorities prior to January 1, 2008. Enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the EIT Law. Before the EIT Law and its implementation regulations became effective on January 1, 2008, as an enterprise located in the Shenzhen Special Economic Zones in the PRC, CDTC and VisionChina Media Group were allowed to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15%. In addition, VisionChina Media Group has been recognized as a “culture enterprise” and thus its headquarters are entitled to full exemption from enterprise income tax from 2005 to 2008. The PRC Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation issued a circular “Notice on preferential tax treatment of enterprise income tax” in February 2008. The circular stipulates that a newly established “culture enterprise” could enjoy the corporate income tax exemption treatment which has been approved by the authorities until the end of its tax holiday. VisionChina Media Group obtained the tax exemption approval certificate for year 2008. VisionChina Media Group’s sales branches located in various cities in the PRC are subject to enterprise income tax at standard rate. While this preferential tax exemption for VisionChina Media Group ended after 2008, in November 2008, VisionChina Media Group was recognized as “new and high technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” and is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15% for 2009 and 2010. VisionChina Media Group is currently applying to be a state-encouraged high-new technology enterprise in 2011, 2012 and 2013 for a preferential tax rate of 15% in these three years. In accordance with a circular issued in December 2010, Beijing Eastlong Technology has been recognized as a state-encouraged high-new technology enterprise starting from 2010, and the status is valid for a period of three years. As such the EIT rate for Beijing Eastlong Technology is 15% in each of the years of 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Furthermore, one of our operating subsidiaries in Luzhou in Sichuan province was recognized as a “local government encouraged company” and is entitled to exemption from the enterprise income tax for 2008 and 2009 and reduced tax rate of 7.5% in each of the years of 2010, 2011 and 2012. However, we cannot assure you that our PRC operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities will continue to receive preferential tax treatments in the future. Any further legislative changes to the tax laws and or regulations could in future years by applicable authorities and become subject our PRC operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities to increased income tax rates. Any increase in the enterprise income tax rate applicable to our operating subsidiary and consolidated affiliated entities in the PRC would decrease our net income and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council of the PRC has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our subsidiary located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiary in China may be subject to the 10% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiary in China, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. 28 Table of Contents In addition, we conduct advertising business through our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities, which are currently owned by individuals. We must pay taxes at the individual income tax of 20% on behalf of our employees who hold interests in a consolidated affiliated entity when that consolidated affiliated entity distributes dividends in the future. Furthermore, there may be potential business taxes arising from the contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities. If we cannot retrieve the undistributed earnings in our consolidated affiliated entities in a tax free manner, we may need to pay additional taxes upon distribution of such undistributed earnings. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Also, on April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Tax (“SAT”) issued a Tax Circular, Guoshuifa [2009] No. 82, Notice on the Recognition of Overseas Incorporated Domestically Controlled Enterprises as PRC Resident Enterprises Based on the Place of Effective Management Criteria , or Circular 82, with retrospective effect from 1 January 2008. According to Circular 82, any enterprise established under the law of a country or region other than the PRC but whose main investor is a PRC enterprise or Group shall be recognized as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes if all the following criteria are met: (i) the senior executives responsible for its daily production or business operations and the place where such responsibilities are carried out are mainly located in China; (ii) decisions about its finances (such as borrowing, lending, financing and managing financial risk) and human resources (such as staff recruitment, termination, and remuneration policies) are made or approved by organizations or individuals located in China; (iii) its major properties, accounting books and records, company seal, board minutes and resolutions, shareholders’ meeting minutes, etc. are kept in China; and (iv) 50% or more of its voting directors or its senior executives habitually reside in China. The principle of “substance over form” applies when determining the place of effective management. Although Circular 82 was issued to regulate the PRC tax resident judgment of companies established overseas and controlled by PRC companies, which is not applicable in our case, the criteria in Circular 82 should be used as a reference to the SAT’s view on this issue Our board of directors holds regular meetings and makes most of the significant operational, investment and financing decisions outside of the PRC. In addition, our senior management spends a significant amount of time outside of the PRC developing and managing investor relations. As such, we believe that the de facto management body of the Company is located outside of the PRC, and, accordingly, we believe the risk of being recognized as a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law is low. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, our legal entities organized outside of the PRC incurred losses. Therefore, even if our legal entities organized outside of the PRC are treated as PRC residents for purpose of the new EIT law, our management believes there was no material impact on our results of operations. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or common shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our common shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in common shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to natural disasters, health epidemics, terrorist attacks or other events in China that may affect usage of public transportation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural disasters, the outbreak of health epidemics, terrorist attacks or other events in China. For example, in early 2008, parts of China suffered a wave of strong snow storms that severely impacted public transportation systems. In May 2008, Sichuan Province in China suffered a strong earthquake measuring approximately 8.0 on the Richter scale that caused widespread damage and casualties. The May 2008 Sichuan earthquake may have a material adverse effect on the general economic conditions in the areas affected by the earthquake. We cannot assure you that the May 2008 Sichuan earthquake will not have a significant impact on the overall economic conditions in the PRC. In addition, in the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. In July 2008, explosive devices were detonated on several buses in Kunming, Yunnan Province of China, which resulted in disruptions to public transportation systems in Kunming and casualties. Any future natural disasters, health epidemics, terrorist attacks or other events in the PRC could cause a reduction in usage of, or other severe disruptions to, public transportation systems and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law may significantly increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC National People’s Congress enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions and provides for specific standards and procedure for the termination of an employment contract. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including in cases of the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. As there has been little guidance as to how the Labor Contract Law will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains substantial uncertainty as to its potential impact on our business and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law may significantly increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses, as the continued success of our business depends significantly on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile which could result in a loss to you. The market price for our ADSs is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • regulatory developments in China affecting us, our industry, our corporate structure or our advertisers; • announcements of competitive developments; • announcements regarding litigation or administrative proceedings involving us; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies with comparable businesses; • addition or departure of our executive officers; • release or expiry of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares or ADSs; and • sales or perceived sales of additional common shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Sales of our ADSs or common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. As of December 31, 2010, we had 84,894,888 common shares outstanding, including 64,005,166 common shares represented by 64,005,166 ADSs. Sales of our common shares or ADSs held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder, or the availability of these securities for future sale, may have a negative effect on the market price of our ADSs. 30 Table of Contents In addition, certain of our shareholders or their transferees and assignees have the right to cause us to register the sale of their shares under the Securities Act upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may discourage acquisition of our company by a third party, which could limit our shareholders’ opportunity to sell their shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of our company, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving our shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our company in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares in one or more series and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares. Preferred shares could thus be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. In addition, if our board of directors issues preferred shares, the market price of our common shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common shares may be adversely affected. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection of your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Furthermore, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a Delaware company. Judgments obtained against us by our shareholders may not be enforceable. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us or our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents of the United States and a substantial portion of whose assets are located outside of the United States. Moreover, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether Cayman Islands or PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the Cayman Islands or the PRC against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state in the United States. 31 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs have fewer rights than shareholders and must act through the depositary to exercise their rights. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same rights as our shareholders and may only exercise voting rights with respect to the underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under our third amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required to convene a general meeting is seven days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares and allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ADSs. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ADSs are not voted as you requested. In addition, in your capacity as an ADS holder, you will not be able to call a shareholders’ meeting. The depositary for our ADSs will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our common shares underlying your ADSs if you do not vote at shareholders’ meetings, except in limited circumstances, which could adversely affect your interests. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our common shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless: • we have failed to provide the depositary with our notice of meeting and related voting materials in a timely fashion; • we have instructed the depositary that we do not wish a discretionary proxy to be given; • we have informed the depositary that there is substantial opposition to a matter to be voted on at the meeting; or • a matter to be voted on at the meeting would have a material adverse impact on shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our common shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company. Holders of our common shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may be subject to limitations on transfers of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time, or from time to time, when it deems appropriate in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deems it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement or for any other reason. 32 Table of Contents Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which they relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not make rights available to you unless either the rights and any related securities are both registered under the Securities Act, or the distribution of them to ADS holders is exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute such property and you will not receive such distribution. 