Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock contains a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following risk factors before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Our business, including our operating results and financial condition, could be harmed by any of these risks. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially and adversely affect our business. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in our filings with the SEC, including our financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Failure to comply with the terms of the Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC may result in significant losses. On October 21, 2011, 1st United entered into an Assumption Agreement – Whole Bank; All Deposits (“Old Harbor Purchase and Assumption Agreement”) with the FDIC, pursuant to which 1st United assumed all deposits and certain identified assets and liabilities of Old Harbor Bank, a Florida-chartered commercial bank headquartered in Clearwater, Florida. 1st United also entered into Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC. Under the Loss Sharing Agreements, 1st United will share losses in the losses on assets covered under the Old Harbor Purchase and Assumption Agreement. The FDIC will reimburse 1st United for 70% of up to $49 million of losses with respect to the acquired $116.7 million loan portfolio and the $2.3 million of other real estate owned, or “OREO” at fair value. On December 17, 2010, 1st United entered into an Assumption Agreement – Whole Bank; All Deposits (“Bank of Miami Purchase and Assumption Agreement”) with the FDIC, pursuant to which 1st United assumed all deposits and certain identified assets and liabilities of The Bank of Miami, a national association headquartered in Miami, Florida. 1st United also entered into Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC. Under the Loss Sharing Agreements, 1st United will share in the losses on assets covered under the Bank of Miami Purchase and Assumption Agreement. The FDIC will reimburse 1st United for 80% of losses with respect to the $218.2 million loan portfolio and the $8.2 million of OREO, at fair value on the date acquired. On December 11, 2009, 1st United entered into an Assumption Agreement – Whole Bank; All Deposits (“Republic Purchase and Assumption Agreement”) with the FDIC, pursuant to which 1st United assumed all deposits (except certain broker deposits) and certain identified assets and liabilities of Republic Federal Bank, a national association headquartered in Miami, Florida. 1st United also entered into Loss Sharing Agreements with the FDIC. Under the Loss Sharing Agreements, 1st United will share in the losses on assets covered under the Republic Purchase and Assumption Agreement. The FDIC will reimburse 1st United for 80% of losses of up to $36 million with respect to the entire $185 million acquired loan portfolio at fair value. The FDIC will reimburse 1st United for 95% of losses in excess of $36 million with respect to the $238 million acquired loan portfolio. The Old Harbor Purchase and Assumption Agreement, the Republic Purchase and Assumption Agreement and the Bank of Miami Purchase and Assumption Agreement and their respective Loss Sharing Agreements have specific, detailed and cumbersome compliance, servicing, notification and reporting requirements, including certain restrictions on our change of control. The Loss Sharing Agreements prohibit the assignment by 1st United of its rights under the Loss Sharing Agreements and the sale or transfer of any subsidiary of 1stUnited holding title to assets covered under the Loss Sharing Agreements without the prior written consent of the FDIC. An assignment would include (i) the merger or consolidation of 1st United with or into another bank; (ii) our merger or consolidation with or into another company; (iii) the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of 1st United to another company or person; (iv) a sale by any one or more shareholders of more than 9% of the outstanding shares of 1st United Bancorp, Inc., 1st United, or any subsidiary holding assets subject to the Loss Sharing Agreements or (v) the sale of shares by 1st United Bancorp, Inc., 1st United, or any subsidiary holding assets subject to the Loss Sharing Agreements, in a public or private offering, that increases the number of outstanding shares by more than 9%. 1st United’s rights under the Loss Sharing Agreements will terminate if any assignment of the Loss Sharing Agreements occurs without the prior written consent of the FDIC. Our failure to comply with the terms of the Loss Sharing Agreements or to properly service the loans and OREO under the requirements of the Loss Sharing Agreements may cause individual loans or large pools of loans to lose eligibility for loss sharing payments from the FDIC. This could result in material losses that are currently not anticipated. 33 We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability depends to a large extent on 1st United’s net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, as is likely in the current zero interest rate policy environment, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. If market interest rates rise rapidly, interest rate adjustment caps may limit increases in the interest rates on adjustable rate loans, thereby reducing our net interest income. The required accounting treatment of troubled loans we acquired through acquisitions could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest margins and interest income in future periods. Under U.S. GAAP, we are required to record troubled loans acquired through acquisitions at fair value which may underestimate the actual performance of such loans. As a result, if these loans outperform our original fair value estimates, the difference between our original estimate and the actual performance of the loan (the “discount”) is accreted into net interest income. Thus, our net interest margins may initially appear higher. In 2013 and 2012, our net interest margins were increased by 1.56% (which 1.13% was due to the resolution of and changes in cash flows on acquired assets) and 1.50% (which 0.81% was due to the resolution of and changes in cash flows on acquired assets), respectively, because of these discount accretions. We expect the yields on our loans to decline as our acquired loan portfolio pays down or matures and we expect downward pressure on our interest income to the extent that the runoff on our acquired loan portfolio is not replaced with comparable high-yielding loans. This could result in higher net interest margins and interest income in current periods and lower net interest rate margin and lower interest income in future periods. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our operations by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. We have made acquisitions of financial institutions and may continue to seek whole bank or branch acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: §the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; §the ability to finance an acquisition and possible ownership and economic dilution to existing shareholders; §diversion of management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the acquired institution; §the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on results of operations; and §the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and such expansion may not result in the levels of profits we seek. Integration efforts for any future mergers and acquisitions may not be successful and following any future merger or acquisition, after giving it effect, we may not achieve financial results comparable to or better than our historical experience. Future acquisitions may dilute shareholder value. We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other financial institutions. As a result, merger and acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt, or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future acquisitions. 34 Our business may be adversely affected by conditions in financial markets and economic conditions generally. Our business is concentrated in the South and Central Florida market areas. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows are subject to changes if there are changes in the economic conditions in these areas. A prolonged period of economic recession or other adverse economic conditions in these areas could have a negative impact on us. A significant decline in general economic conditions nationally, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets, declines in the housing market, a tightening credit environment or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions began deteriorating during the latter half of 2007 and have not fully recovered since that time. Although economic conditions are improving, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions, including South and Central Florida, has been greatly reduced. While unemployment in the U.S. and our market areas has begun to improve, unemployment remains elevated compared to recent historical levels prior to 2007. As a result of this economic crisis, many lending institutions, including us, have experienced declines in the performance of their loans, including construction, land development and land loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Moreover, competition among depository institutions for deposits and quality loans has increased significantly. Loan demand has not returned to pre-recession levels. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages declined during the recession, and despite recent increasing property values in our markets, prices have not fully recovered. Overall, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on our business, and the environment may not improve in the near term. Accordingly, unless and until conditions improve, our business, financial condition and results of operations could continue to be adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent upon our ability to retain the members of our senior management team and the loss of key personnel may adversely affect us. Our success is, and expected to remain, highly dependent on our senior management team, including Messrs. Orlando, Schupp, Marino, Jacobson, and Ostermayer. As a community bank, it is our management’s extensive knowledge of and relationships in the community that generate business for us. Successful execution of our growth strategy will continue to place significant demands on our management and the loss of any such services may adversely affect our growth and profitability. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to assure full repayment. This will result in credit losses that are inherent in the lending business. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as: §the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; §previous loan loss experience; §specific loans that have loss potential; §delinquency trends; §estimated fair market value of the collateral; §current economic conditions; and §geographic and industry loan concentrations. As of December 31, 2013, 1st United’s allowance for loan losses was $9.6 million, which represented approximately 0.85% of its total amount of loans. 1st United had $15.8 million in non-accruing loans as of December 31, 2013, of which approximately $6.8 million are covered by Loss Sharing Agreements. The allowance may not prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to 1st United’s non-performing or performing loans. In addition, regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review the estimated losses on loans. Such agencies may require us to recognize additional losses based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. Accordingly, the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover loan losses or significant increases to the allowance may be required in the future if economic conditions should worsen. Material additions to 1st United’s allowance for loan losses would adversely impact our net income and capital. 35 If our nonperforming assets increase, our earnings will suffer. At December 31, 2013, our nonperforming assets (which consist of non-accruing loans, accruing loans 90+ days delinquent, and foreclosed real estate assets) totaled $34.4 million, or 1.87 % of total assets, which is a decrease of $8.5 million or 19.9% over nonperforming assets at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, our nonperforming assets were $42.9 million or 2.74% of total assets and $57.0 million or 4.01%, respectively. Nonperforming assets included $17.6 million, $24.6 million, and $23.0 million assets covered by Loss Sharing Agreements as of December 31, 2013, December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011, respectively. Our nonperforming assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or real estate owned. We must reserve for probable losses, which is established through a current period charge to the provision for loan losses as well as from time to time, as appropriate, write down the value of properties in our other real estate owned portfolio to reflect changing market values. Additionally, there are legal fees associated the resolution of problem assets as well as carrying costs such as taxes, insurance and maintenance related to our other real estate owned. Further, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires the active involvement of management, which can distract them from more profitable activity. Finally, if our estimate for the recorded allowance for loan losses proves to be incorrect and our allowance is inadequate, we will have to increase the allowance accordingly. Our loan portfolio includes loans with a higher risk of loss which could lead to higher loan losses and nonperforming assets. We originate commercial real estate loans, construction and development loans, consumer loans, and residential mortgage loans primarily within our market area. Commercial real estate, commercial, and construction and development loans tend to involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers and are most susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. These loans also have historically had greater credit risk than other loans for the following reasons: §Commercial Real Estate Loans. Repayment is dependent on income being generated in amounts sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service. These loans also involve greater risk because they are generally not fully amortizing over a loan period, but rather have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. As of December 31, 2013, commercial real estate loans, including multi-family loans, comprised approximately 67% of our total loan portfolio. §Commercial Loans. Repayment is generally dependent upon the successful operation of the borrower’s business. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise, be illiquid, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. As of December 31, 2013, commercial loans comprised approximately 14% of our total loan portfolio. §Construction and Development Loans. The risk of loss is largely dependent on our initial estimate of whether the property’s value at completion equals or exceeds the cost of property construction and the availability of take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays or cost overruns. If our estimate is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan, sale of the property, or by seizure of collateral. As of December 31, 2013, construction and development loans comprised approximately 3% of our total loan portfolio. The increased risks associated with these types of loans result in a correspondingly higher probability of default on such loans (as compared to single-family real estate loans). Loan defaults would likely increase our loan losses and nonperforming assets and could adversely affect our allowance for loan losses. Confidential customer information transmitted through 1st United’s online banking service is vulnerable to security breaches and computer viruses, which could expose 1st United to litigation and adversely affect its reputation and ability to generate deposits. 1st United provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is a critical element of online banking. 1st United’s network or those of its customers could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes and other security problems. 1st United may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that 1st United’s activities or the activities of its customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose 1st United to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in 1st United’s systems and could adversely affect its reputation and its ability to generate deposits. 36 We may need additional capital resources in the future and these capital resources may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the future to make strategic acquisitions or investments, for future growth, to fund losses or additional provisions for loan losses in the future, or to maintain certain capital levels in accordance with banking regulations. Such financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to raise additional capital may also be restricted by the Loss-Sharing Agreements we entered into with the FDIC if the capital raise would effect a change in control of 1st United. Further, in the event that we offer additional shares of our common stock in the future, our Articles of Incorporation do not provide shareholders with preemptive rights and such shares may be offered to investors other than our existing shareholders for prices at or below the then current market price of our common stock, all at the discretion of the Board. If we do sell additional shares of common stock to raise capital, the sale could reduce market price per share of common stock and dilute your ownership interest and such dilution could be substantial. Since we engage in lending secured by real estate and may be forced to foreclose on the collateral property and own the underlying real estate, we may be subject to the increased costs associated with the ownership of real property, which could result in reduced net income. Since we originate loans secured by real estate, we may have to foreclose on the collateral property to protect our investment and may thereafter own and operate such property, in which case we are exposed to the risks inherent in the ownership of real estate. The amount that we, as mortgagee, may realize after a default is dependent upon factors outside of our control, including, but not limited to: §General or local economic conditions; §Environmental cleanup liability; §Neighborhood values; §Interest rates; §Real estate taxes; §Operating expenses of the mortgaged properties; §Supply and demand for rental units or properties; §Our ability to obtain and maintain adequate occupancy of the properties; §Zoning laws; §Governmental rules, regulations and fiscal policies; and §Acts of God. Certain expenditures associated with the ownership of real estate, principally real estate taxes and maintenance costs, may adversely affect the income from the real estate. Therefore, the cost of operating real property may exceed the rental income earned from such property, and we may have to advance funds in order to protect our investment or we may be required to dispose of the real property at a loss. Changing conditions in Latin America could adversely affect our business. A substantial number of our customers have economic and cultural ties to Latin America and, as a result, we are likely to feel the effects of adverse economic and political conditions in Latin America. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $269.5 million of our deposits were from foreign nationals whose primary residence is Latin America. U.S. and global economic policies, political or political tension, and global economic conditions may adversely impact the Latin American economies. If economic conditions in Latin America change, we could experience an outflow of deposits by those of our customers with connections to Latin America. 37 Liquidity risk could impair our ability to fund operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, and other sources, could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Factors that could negatively impact our access to liquidity sources include: §a decrease in the level of our business activity as a result of an economic downturn in the markets in which our loans are concentrated; §adverse regulatory action against us; or §our inability to attract and retain deposits. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us or our region, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry and the unstable credit markets. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could negatively impact our earnings and capital. Goodwill is initially recorded at fair value and is not amortized, but is reviewed for impairment at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Given the current economic environment and conditions in the financial markets, we could be required to evaluate the recoverability of goodwill prior to our normal annual assessment if we experience disruption in our business, unexpected significant declines in our operating results, or sustained market capitalization declines. These types of events and the resulting analyses could result in goodwill impairment charges in the future. These non-cash impairment charges could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods, and could also significantly impact certain financial ratios and limit our ability to obtain financing or raise capital in the future. A goodwill impairment charge does not adversely affect the calculation of our risk based and tangible capital ratios. As of December 31, 2013, we had $64.0 million in goodwill, which represented approximately 3.5% of our total assets. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies and credit unions for deposits, loans and other financial services in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions with whom we compete for business and deposits are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, as well as larger lending limits and branch systems, and offer a wider array of banking services. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our primary market area and our lending territory. Consolidation and increasing competition may reduce or limit our margins, net interest income and our market share which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Consumers and businesses may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 38 Risks Related to Regulation and Legislation Recently enacted legislation, particularly the Dodd-Frank Act, could materially and adversely affect us by increasing compliance costs, heightening our risk of noncompliance with applicable regulations, and changing the competitive landscape in the banking industry. From time to time, the U.S. Congress and state legislatures consider changing laws and enact new laws to further regulate the financial services industry. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, or the Dodd-Frank Act, into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has resulted in sweeping changes in the regulation of financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act contains numerous provisions that affect all banks and bank holding companies. Many of these provisions remain subject to regulatory rule-making and implementation, the effects of which are not yet known. Although we cannot predict the specific impact and long-term effects that the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder will have on us and our prospects, our target markets and the financial industry more generally, we believe that the Dodd-Frank Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder are likely to impose additional administrative and regulatory burdens that will obligate us to incur additional expenses and will adversely affect our margins and profitability. We will also have a heightened risk of noncompliance with the additional regulations. Finally, the impact of some of these new regulations is not known and may affect our ability to compete long-term with larger competitors. The new Basel III Capital Standards may have an adverse effect on us. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board released its final rules which will implement in the United States the Basel III regulatory capital reforms from the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and certain changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under the final rule, minimum requirements will increase for both the quality and quantity of capital held by banking organizations. Consistent with the international Basel framework, the rule includes a new minimum ratio of Common Equity Tier I Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets of 4.5% and a Common Equity Tier I Capital conservation buffer of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets that will apply to all supervised financial institutions. The rule also, among other things, raises the minimum ratio of Tier I Capital to Risk-Weighted Assets from 4% to 6% and includes a minimum leverage ratio of 4% for all banking organizations. We must begin transitioning to the new rules effective January 1, 2015. The impact of the new capital rules is likely to require us to maintain higher levels of capital, which will lower our return on equity. New regulations could adversely impact our earnings due to, among other things, increased compliance costs or costs due to noncompliance. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule, effective as of January 14, 2014, designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid monetary damages under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that satisfy this “qualified mortgage” safe-harbor will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including but not limited to: §excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); §interest-only payments; §negative-amortization; and §terms longer than 30 years. Also, to qualify as a “qualified mortgage,” a borrower’s total monthly debt-to-income ratio may not exceed 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower for the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more expensive and/or time consuming to make these loans, which could adversely impact our growth or profitability. 39 Additionally, on December 10, 2013, five financial regulatory agencies, including our primary federal regulator, the Federal Reserve, adopted final rules (the “Final Rules”) implementing the so-called Volcker Rule embodied in Section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act, which was added by Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Final Rules prohibit banking entities from, among other things, (1) engaging in short-term proprietary trading for their own accounts, and (2) having certain ownership interests in and relationships with hedge funds or private equity funds (“covered funds”). The Final Rules are intended to provide greater clarity with respect to both the extent of those primary prohibitions and of the related exemptions and exclusions. The Final Rules also require each regulated entity to establish an internal compliance program that is consistent with the extent to which it engages in activities covered by the Volcker Rule, which must include (for the largest entities) making regular reports about those activities to regulators. Community banks, such as 1st United, have been afforded some relief under the Final Rules. If such banks are engaged only in exempted proprietary trading, such as trading in U.S. government, agency, state and municipal obligations, they are exempt entirely from compliance program requirements. Moreover, even if a community bank engages in proprietary trading or covered fund activities under the rule, they need only incorporate references to the Volcker Rule into their existing policies and procedures. The Final Rules are effective April 1, 2014, but the conformance period has been extended from its statutory end date of July 21, 2014 until July 21, 2015. We are currently evaluating the Final Rules, which are lengthy and detailed. The Federal Reserve’s repeal of the prohibition against payment of interest on demand deposits (Regulation Q) and the elimination of the FDIC’s TAG program may increase competition for such deposits and ultimately increase interest expense. A major portion of our net income comes from our interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by us on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees we receive on our interest-earning assets. Our interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to our customers and securities held in our investment portfolio. We fund assets using deposits and other borrowings. Our goal has been to maintain non-interest-bearing deposits in the range of 15% to 25% of total deposits, and, as of December 31, 2013 we maintained approximately 34% of deposits as non-interest bearing. On July 14, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued final rules to repeal Regulation Q, which had prohibited the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System. The final rules implement Section 627 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which repealed Section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act in its entirety effective July 21, 2011. As a result, banks and thrifts are now permitted to offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which were previously forbidden under Regulation Q. The repeal of Regulation Q may cause increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits. If we decide to pay interest on demand accounts, we would expect our interest expense to increase. Although Regulation Q has been effective for over two years, the impact may not have been realized yet because of the current zero interest rate policy environment. We are subject to extensive regulation that could restrict our activities and impose financial requirements or limitations on the conduct of our business and limit our ability to receive dividends from the 1st United. 1st United is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC. Our compliance with these industry regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits, access to capital and brokered deposits and locations of banking offices. If we are unable to meet these regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 1st United must also meet regulatory capital requirements imposed by our regulators. An inability to meet these capital requirements would result in numerous mandatory supervisory actions and additional regulatory restrictions, and could have a negative impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. In addition to the regulations of the Florida Office of Financial Regulation, the Federal Reserve, and the FDIC, as a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank, 1st United must also comply with applicable regulations of the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Federal Home Loan Bank. 1st United’s activities are also regulated under consumer protection laws applicable to our lending, deposit and other activities. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act imposes significant additional regulation on our operations. Regulation by all of these agencies is intended primarily for the protection of our depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund and not for the benefit of our shareholders. Our failure to comply with these laws and regulations, even if the failure follows good faith effort or reflects a difference in interpretation, could subject us to restrictions on our business activities, fines and other penalties, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations, capital base and the price of our securities. Further, any new laws, rules and regulations could make compliance more difficult or expensive or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial condition. Please refer to the Section entitled “Business – Regulatory Considerations” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 40 Florida financial institutions, such as 1st United, face a higher risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. Since September 11, 2001, banking regulators have intensified their focus on anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements, particularly the anti-money laundering provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act. There is also increased scrutiny of compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Since 2004, federal banking regulators and examiners have been extremely aggressive in their supervision and examination of financial institutions located in the State of Florida with respect to the institution’s Bank Secrecy Act/Anti-Money Laundering compliance. Consequently, numerous formal enforcement actions have been issued against financial institutions. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, 1st United has been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. If 1st United’s policies, procedures and systems are deemed deficient or the policies, procedures and systems of the financial institutions that it has already acquired or may acquire in the future are deficient, 1st United would be subject to liability, including fines and regulatory actions. Such regulatory action may include restrictions on 1st United’s ability to pay dividends and the necessity to obtain regulatory approvals to proceed with certain aspects of its business plan, including its acquisition plans. In addition, because 1st United operates in Florida and because of the recent acquisitions of Old Harbor Bank and the acquisition of AFI and EBI, we expect that 1st United will face a higher risk of noncompliance and enforcement action with the Bank Secrecy Act and other anti-money laundering statutes and regulations. Our eligibility to continue to use a short form registration statement on Form S-3 may affect our ability to opportunistically access the capital markets. The ability to conduct primary offerings under a registration statement on Form S-3 has benefits to issuers who are eligible to use this short form registration statement. Form S-3 permits an eligible issuer to incorporate by reference its past and future filings and reports made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. In addition, Form S-3 enables eligible issuers to conduct primary offerings “off the shelf” under Rule 415 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. The shelf registration process under Form S-3, combined with the ability to incorporate information on a forward basis, allows issuers to avoid additional delays and interruptions in the offering process and to access the capital markets in a more expeditious and efficient manner than raising capital in a standard registered offering on Form S-1. One of the requirements for Form S-3 eligibility is for an issuer to have timely filed its Exchange Act reports (including Form 10-Ks, Form 10-Qs and certain Form 8-Ks) for the 12- month period immediately preceding either the filing of the Form S-3, or a subsequent determination date. If, in the future, we fail to meet the eligibility requirements for Form S-3 we will lose our ability for a period of time to efficiently and expeditiously access the capital markets which could adversely impact our financial condition and capital ratios. Risks Related to Market Events Our loan portfolio is heavily concentrated in mortgage loans secured by properties in South and Central Florida which heightens our risk of loss than if we had a more geographically diversified portfolio. Our interest-earning assets are heavily concentrated in mortgage loans secured by properties located in South and Central Florida. As of December 31, 2013, 71.3% of our loans secured by real estate were secured by commercial and residential properties located in Palm Beach, Miami-Dade, Broward, Hillsborough, Orange and Pasco Counties, Florida. The concentration of our loans in this region subjects us to risk that a downturn in the area economy, such as the one the area is currently experiencing, could result in a decrease in loan originations and an increase in delinquencies and foreclosures. As a result of this concentration, we may face greater risk than if our lending were more geographically diversified. In addition, since a large portion of our portfolio is secured by properties located in South and Central Florida, the occurrence of a natural disaster, such as a hurricane, could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of mortgaged properties, and an increase in the risk of delinquencies, foreclosures or loss on loans originated by us. We may suffer further losses due to the decline in the value of the properties underlying our mortgage loans, which would have an adverse impact on our operations. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the relatively close proximity of our geographic markets, we have both geographic concentrations as well as concentrations in the types of loans funded. Specifically, due to the nature of our markets, a significant portion of the portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 66.8% and 15.8% of our $1.1 billion loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate and residential real estate (including home equity loans), respectively. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 3.1% of total loans were secured by property under construction and land development. 41 The recent downturn in the real estate market, the deterioration in the value of collateral, and the local and national economic recessions, had adversely affected our customers’ ability to repay their loans. If these conditions return, then our customers’ ability to repay their loans will be further eroded. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, we may be unable to recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, and consequently, we would sustain loan losses. The fair value of our investments could decline which would adversely affect our shareholders’ equity. Our investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2013 has been designated as available-for-sale pursuant to U.S. GAAP relating to accounting for investments. Such principles require that unrealized gains and losses in the estimated value of the available-for-sale portfolio be “marked to market” and reflected as a separate item in shareholders’ equity (net of tax) as accumulated other comprehensive income. Shareholders’ equity will continue to reflect the unrealized gains and losses (net of tax) of these investments. The fair value of our investment portfolio may decline, causing a corresponding decline in shareholders’ equity. Management believes that several factors will affect the fair values of our investment portfolio. These include, but are not limited to, changes in interest rates or expectations of changes, the degree of volatility in the securities markets, inflation rates or expectations of inflation, and the slope of the interest rate yield curve (the yield curve refers to the differences between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates; a positively sloped yield curve means shorter-term rates are lower than longer-term rates). These and other factors may impact specific categories of the portfolio differently, and we cannot predict the effect these factors may have on any specific category. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Stock Limited trading activity for shares of our common stock may contribute to price volatility. While our common stock is listed and traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, there has been limited trading activity in our common stock. The average daily trading volume of our common stock in 2013 was approximately 50,996 shares. Due to the limited trading activity of our common stock, relativity small trades may have a significant impact on the price of our common stock and thereby, the value of your investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the factors discussed in other risk factors and the following: §actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; §changes in interest rates; §changes in the legal or regulatory environment in which we operate; §press releases, announcements or publicity relating to us or our competitors or relating to trends in our industry; §changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts and investors; §future sales of our common stock; §changes in economic conditions in our marketplace, general conditions in the U.S. economy, financial markets or the banking industry; and §other developments affecting our competitors or us. Our share ownership is concentrated. Our officers, directors and principal shareholders, together with their affiliates, beneficially own approximately 41% of our voting shares. As a result, these few shareholders, even if they do not act in concert, will exert significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors, any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the assets, as well as any charter amendment and other matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control and may have a negative impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock by discouraging third party investors. In addition, the interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with the interests of the Company’s other shareholders. 42 Securities research analysts may not initiate coverage or continue to cover our common stock, and this may have a negative impact on its market price. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these securities analysts and they may not cover our common stock. If securities research analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are covered by securities analysts and our common stock is the subject of an unfavorable report, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which would cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, and certain laws and regulations may prevent or delay transactions you might favor, including our sale or merger. We are registered with the Federal Reserve as a financial holding company under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and are registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. As a result, we are subject to supervisory regulation and examination by the Federal Reserve. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, and other federal laws subject financial holding companies to particular restrictions on the types of activities in which they may engage, and to a range of supervisory requirements and activities, including regulatory enforcement actions for violations of laws and regulations. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, certain laws and regulations and various other factors may make it more difficult and expensive for companies or persons to acquire control of us without the consent of our Board of Directors. It is possible, however, that you would want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential buyer could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our common stock. For example, our Articles of Incorporation permit our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder action. The ability to issue preferred stock could discourage a company from attempting to obtain control of us by means of a tender offer, merger, proxy contest or otherwise. We are also subject to certain provisions of the Florida Business Corporation Act and our Articles of Incorporation that relate to business combinations with interested shareholders. Other provisions in our Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws that may discourage takeover attempts or make them more difficult include: §Supermajority voting requirements to remove a director from office; §Requirement that only directors may fill a Board vacancy; §Requirement that a special meeting may be called only by a majority vote of our shareholders; §Provisions regarding the timing and content of shareholder proposals and nominations; §Supermajority voting requirements to amend our Articles of Incorporation; §Absence of cumulative voting; and §Inability for shareholders to take action by written consent. 43 We are subject to evolving and expensive corporate governance regulations and requirements. Our failure to adequately adhere to these requirements or the failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures could seriously harm our business. As a publicly reporting company, we are subject to certain federal, state and other rules and regulations, including applicable requirements of the Dodd- Frank Act and Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Compliance with these evolving regulations is costly and requires a significant diversion of management time and attention, particularly with regard to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Although we have reviewed our disclosure and internal controls and procedures in order to determine whether they are effective, our controls and procedures may not be able to prevent errors or frauds in the future. Faulty judgments, simple errors or mistakes, or the failure of our personnel to adhere to established controls and procedures may make it difficult for us to ensure that the objectives of the control system are met. A failure of our controls and procedures to detect other than inconsequential errors or fraud could seriously harm our business and results of operations. We may be unable to declare and pay dividends in the future. We declared a special dividend in December 2012 and December 2013 and also commenced a regular quarterly dividend in 2013. However, the payment of dividends to our shareholders depends largely upon the ability of 1st United to declare and pay dividends to us, as the principal source of our revenue is from such dividends. Our ability to declare and pay dividends depend primarily upon earnings, financial condition and need for funds, as well as governmental policies and regulations applicable to us and 1st United. 1st United is subject to legal limitations on the frequency and amount of dividends that can be paid to us. The Federal Reserve may restrict the ability of 1st United to pay dividends if such payments would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. These regulations and restrictions may limit our ability to obtain funds from 1st United for our cash needs, including funds for acquisitions and the payment of dividends, interest, and operating expenses. In addition, Florida law also places restrictions on the declaration of dividends from state chartered banks to their holding companies. Pursuant to the Florida Financial Institutions Code, the board of directors of state-chartered banks, after charging off bad debts, depreciation and other worthless assets, if any, and making provisions for reasonably anticipated future losses on loans and other assets, may quarterly, semi-annually or annually declare a dividend of up to the aggregate net profits of that period combined with the bank’s retained net profits for the preceding two years and, with the approval of the Florida Office of Financial Regulation and Federal Reserve, declare a dividend from retained net profits which accrued prior to the preceding two years. Before declaring such dividends, 20% of the net profits for the preceding period as is covered by the dividend must be transferred to the surplus fund of the bank until this fund becomes equal to the amount of the bank’s common stock then issued and outstanding. A state-chartered bank may not declare any dividend if (i) its net income (loss) from the current year combined with the retained net income (loss) for the preceding two years aggregates a loss or (ii) the payment of such dividend would cause the capital account of the bank to fall below the minimum amount required by law, regulation, order or any written agreement with the Florida Office of Financial Regulation or a federal regulatory agency. The Company’s ability to pay cash dividends is further limited by certain restrictions imposed generally on Florida corporations under the Florida Business Corporation Act, specifically, no cash dividends may be paid if, after payment, (a) the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business, or (b) the corporation’s total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were to be dissolved at the time of the distribution, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of shareholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the distribution. As a result of the foregoing laws, regulations and restrictions, we may be unable to pay additional dividends to our shareholders in the future. Shares of our common stock are not an insured deposit and may lose value. The shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and will not be insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Your investment will be subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment. 44 Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception of such sales, could depress the market price of our common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options, could dilute the interests of our existing shareholders, including you, and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may issue such additional equity or convertible securities to raise additional capital. The issuance of any additional shares of common or preferred stock or convertible securities could be substantially dilutive to shareholders of our common stock. Moreover, to the extent that we issue restricted stock units, phantom shares, stock appreciation rights, options or warrants to purchase our common stock in the future and those stock appreciation rights, options or warrants are exercised or as the restricted stock units vest, our shareholders may experience further dilution. Holders of our shares of common stock have no preemptive rights that entitle holders to purchase their pro rata share of any offering of shares of any class or series and, therefore, such sales or offerings could result in increased dilution to our shareholders. We cannot predict the effect that future sales of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, any of which may be senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing additional debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, preferred stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt and preferred securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 45 