Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. General Risks Affecting Our Business We currently depend on DISH Network Corporation (“DISH Network”), Bell TV and Dish Mexico for substantially all of our revenue. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from, or a decrease in selling prices of digital set-top boxes and/or other products or services to, DISH Network, Bell TV or Dish Mexico would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from, or a decrease in selling price of transponder leasing and/or providing digital broadcast operations to, DISH Network would also significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our results of operations. DISH Network accounted for 82.5%, 81.3% and 86.5% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. In addition, Bell TV accounted for 8.6%, 10.5% and 8.4% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Furthermore, Dish Mexico accounted for 3.8% and 2.3% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Any reduction in sales to DISH Network, Bell TV or Dish Mexico or in the prices they pay for the products and services they purchase from us could have a significant negative impact on our business. In addition, because substantially all of our revenue is derived from DISH Network, Bell TV and Dish Mexico, our success also depends to a significant degree on the continued success of DISH Network, Bell TV and Dish Mexico in attracting new subscribers and in marketing programming packages and other services and features to subscribers that will require the purchase of new digital set-top boxes, and in particular, new digital set-top boxes at the high-end of our product range that incorporate high-definition, multiple tuners and other advanced technology. If DISH Network’s gross subscriber additions are adversely affected by the sustained economic weakness in the U.S. or for any other reason, we may experience a decline in our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network. As disclosed by DISH Network in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, DISH Network had higher than normal inventory levels of digital set-top boxes and related components at December 31, 2010 and also experienced fewer gross subscriber additions during 2010. As a result of such higher than normal inventory levels, it is possible that DISH Network will purchase fewer digital set-top boxes and related components from us than it has purchased during the year ended December 31, 2010. This decrease could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, to the extent that DISH Network subscriber growth decreases, sales of our digital set-top boxes and related components to DISH Network may further decline, which in turn could have a further material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents In addition, the timing of orders for digital set-top boxes from these three customers could vary significantly depending on equipment promotions these customers offer to their subscribers, changes in technology, and their use of remanufactured digital set-top boxes, which may cause our revenue to vary significantly quarter over quarter and could expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. These inventory risks are particularly acute during end product transitions in which a new generation of digital set-top boxes is being deployed and inventory of older generation digital set-top boxes is at a higher risk of obsolescence. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Furthermore, because of the maturing and competitive nature of the digital set-top box business, the limited number of potential new customers and the short-term nature of our purchase orders with DISH Network, Bell TV and Dish Mexico, we could in the future experience downward pricing pressure on our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network, Bell TV or Dish Mexico, which in turn would adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. DISH Network is currently our primary customer of digital set-top boxes and digital broadcast operation services. These products and services are provided pursuant to contracts that generally expire on January 1, 2012. Thereafter, if we are unable to extend those contracts on similar terms with DISH Network, or if we are otherwise unable to obtain acceptable contracts from third parties following a termination by DISH Network, there could be a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. There are a relatively small number of potential new customers for our digital set-top boxes, satellite services and digital broadcast operations, and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the continued success of these customers. In addition, we may from time to time enter into customer agreements providing for exclusivity periods during which we may sell a specified product only to that customer. If we do not develop relationships with new customers, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. Historically, many of our potential customers have perceived us as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in entering into any commercial relationships with potential customers who are competitors of DISH Network (particularly if we continue to be perceived as affiliated with DISH Network as a result of common ownership and management). Economic weakness, including high unemployment and reduced consumer spending, may adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our business. A substantial majority of our revenue comes from providers of pay-TV services that derive a substantial majority of their revenue from residential customers whose spending patterns may be affected by sustained economic weakness and uncertainty. Economic weakness and uncertainty persisted during 2010. Our ability to grow or maintain our business may be adversely affected by sustained economic weakness, including the effect of wavering consumer confidence, high unemployment and other factors that may adversely affect our “Digital Set-Top Box” business and providers of pay-TV services. In particular, the weak economic conditions may result in the following: • Decreased Demand. Subscribers to pay-TV services may delay purchasing decisions or reduce or reallocate their discretionary spending, which may in turn decrease demand for programming packages from pay-TV providers that include set-top box equipment manufactured by us. • Increased Pricing Pressure. Increased pricing pressures, which may result in reduced margins for pay-TV providers, including DISH Network, Bell TV and Dish Mexico, our primary customers, may reduce demand for high-end digital set top boxes on which we earn higher gross margins. Furthermore, pay-TV providers may increasingly look to make purchases from foreign set-top box suppliers primarily located in Asia with lower-priced products as their customers become more cost-sensitive in making purchase decisions as a result of weak economic conditions. • Excess Inventories and Satellite Capacity. There is an increased risk of excess and obsolete inventories as a result of possible lower demand for pay-TV services and the resultant lower demand for digital set-top 15 Table of Contents boxes from pay-TV providers. We may also have excess satellite capacity resulting from possible decreased demand for pay-TV services and other services utilizing satellite transmission. • Increased Impairment Charges. Sustained economic weakness could result in substantial future impairment charges relating to, among other things, satellites, FCC authorizations, and our debt and equity investments. If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court’s ruling on Tivo’s motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we would be subject to substantial liability and would be prohibited from offering DVR functionality that would in turn place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and significantly decrease sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and others. In June 2009, the United States District Court granted Tivo’s motion for contempt finding that our next-generation DVRs continue to infringe Tivo’s intellectual property and awarded Tivo an additional $103 million in supplemental damages and interest for the period from September 2006 through April 2008. In September 2009, the District Court partially granted Tivo’s motion for contempt sanctions and awarded $2.25 per DVR subscriber per month for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 (as compared to the award for supplemental damages for the prior period from September 2006 to April 2008, which was based on an assumed $1.25 per DVR subscriber per month). By the District Court’s estimation, the total award for the period from April 2008 to July 2009 is approximately $200 million (the enforcement of the award has been stayed by the District Court pending our appeal of the underlying June 2009 contempt order). If we are unsuccessful in overturning the District Court’s ruling on Tivo’s motion for contempt, we are not successful in developing and deploying potential new alternative technology and we are unable to reach a license agreement with Tivo on reasonable terms, we may be required to cease distribution of digital set-top boxes with DVR functionality. In that event, our sales of digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and others would likely significantly decrease and could even potentially cease for a period of time. Furthermore, the inability to offer DVR functionality would place us at a significant disadvantage to our competitors and make it even more difficult for us to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. The adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations if the District Court’s contempt order is upheld would be significant. If we are successful in overturning the District Court’s ruling on Tivo’s motion for contempt, but unsuccessful in defending against any subsequent claim in a new action that our original alternative technology or any potential new alternative technology infringes Tivo’s patent, we could be prohibited from distributing DVRs. In that event, we would be at a significant disadvantage to our competitors who could continue offering DVR functionality and the adverse effect on our business would be material. Because both we and DISH Network are defendants in the Tivo lawsuit, we and DISH Network are jointly and severally liable to Tivo for any final damages and sanctions that may be awarded by the District Court. DISH Network has agreed that it is obligated under the agreements entered into in connection with the Spin-off to indemnify us for substantially all liability arising from this lawsuit. We contributed an amount equal to our $5 million intellectual property liability limit under the Receiver Agreement, and during 2009, we recorded a charge included in “General and administrative expenses – DISH Network” on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for this amount to reflect this contribution. We and DISH Network have further agreed that our $5 million contribution would not exhaust our liability to DISH Network for other intellectual property claims that may arise under the Receiver Agreement. We and DISH Network also agreed that we would each be entitled to joint ownership of, and a cross-license to use, any intellectual property developed in connection with any potential new alternative technology. Because we are jointly and severally liable with DISH Network, to the extent that DISH Network does not or is unable to pay any damages or sanctions arising from this lawsuit, we would then be liable for any portion of these damages and sanctions not paid by DISH Network. Any amounts that DISH Network may be required to pay could impair its ability to pay us and also negatively impact our future liquidity. 16 Table of Contents If we become liable for any portion of these damages or sanctions, we may be required to raise additional capital at a time and in circumstances in which we would normally not raise capital and there can be no assurance that such capital would be available on terms that would be attractive to us or at all. Therefore, any capital we raise may be on terms that are unfavorable to us, which might adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and might also impair our ability to raise capital on acceptable terms in the future to fund our own operations and initiatives. If we are unable to properly respond to technological changes, our business could be significantly harmed. Our business and the market in which we operate are characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards and frequent product enhancements. If we are unable to properly respond to technological developments, our existing products may become obsolete and demand for our products may decline. For instance, we face increasing demand for the delivery of digital video services via the Internet. If this increasing demand, along with other changes in technology allows pay-TV subscribers to use devices such as personal computers, Internet ready televisions, blu-ray players or gaming consoles, instead of set-top boxes, to receive their pay-TV services, our customers may not need to purchase our digital set-top boxes to provide their subscribers with their pay-TV services. Our competitors may also introduce technologies that compete favorably with our digital set-top boxes or that cause our digital set-top boxes to no longer be of significant benefit to our customers. We and our suppliers may not be able to keep pace with technological developments. If we fail to timely obtain such technologies from our suppliers or introduce products and services with superior technologies, if the new technologies developed by us or our partners fail to achieve sustained acceptance in the marketplace or become obsolete, or if our competitors obtain or develop proprietary technologies that are perceived by the market as being superior to ours, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our future competitive position that could in turn decrease our revenues and earnings. Furthermore, after we have incurred substantial research and development costs, one or more of the technologies under our development, or under development by one or more of our strategic partners, could become obsolete prior to its introduction. Our response to technological developments depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees. Competition for the services of such employees is intense. Although we strive to attract and retain these employees, we may not succeed in this respect. If we are unable to attract and retain technically skilled employees, we may not be able to respond to changes in technologies and, as a result, our competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. We currently have unused satellite capacity, and our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if we are not able to lease more of this capacity to third parties. While we are currently evaluating various opportunities to make profitable use of our satellite capacity (including, but not limited to, supplying satellite capacity for new international ventures), we do not have firm plans to utilize all of our satellite capacity. In addition, especially in light of the potential continued lack of demand for satellite services as a result of sustained economic weakness, there can be no assurance that we can successfully develop the business opportunities we currently plan to pursue with this capacity. If we are unable to lease our excess satellite capacity, our margins would be negatively impacted and we may be required to record impairments related to our satellites. Our sales to DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed on short notice, which would have a detrimental effect on us. DISH Network has no obligations to continue to purchase our products and only certain obligations to continue to purchase certain of our services. Therefore, our relationship with DISH Network could be terminated or substantially curtailed with little or no advance notice. Any material reduction in our sales to DISH Network would have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Furthermore, because there are a relatively small number of potential customers for our products and services, if we lose DISH Network as a customer, it will be difficult for us to replace our historical revenues from DISH Network. 17 Table of Contents We may need additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, to continue investing in our business and to finance acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to among other things, continue investing in our business, construct and launch new satellites, and pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions. Weakness in the financial markets could make it difficult for certain borrowers to access capital markets at acceptable terms or at all. Instability in the equity markets could make it difficult for us to raise equity financing without incurring substantial dilution to our existing shareholders. In particular, it may be difficult for us to raise debt financing on acceptable terms. In addition, sustained economic weakness may limit our ability to generate sufficient internal cash to fund investments, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other strategic transactions. We cannot predict with any certainty whether or not we will be impacted by sustained economic weakness. As a result, these conditions make it difficult for us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities because we may not have access to funding sources necessary for us to pursue organic and strategic business development opportunities. We may experience significant financial losses on our existing investments. We have entered into certain strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere, including, among others, our investments in TerreStar Corporation and TerreStar Networks. These investments involve a high degree of risk and could diminish our ability to fund our stock buyback program, invest capital in our business or return capital to our shareholders. The overall sustained economic uncertainty, as well as financial, operational and other difficulties encountered by certain companies in which we have invested, such as the bankruptcies of TerreStar Networks and TerreStar Corporation, increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. These investments could also expose us to significant financial losses and may restrict our ability to make other investments or limit alternative uses of our capital resources. In particular, the laws, regulations and practices of certain countries may make it harder for our international investments to be successful. If our investments suffer losses, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the companies in which we invest or with whom we partner may not be able to compete effectively or there may be insufficient demand for the services and products offered by these companies. We may pursue acquisitions and other strategic transactions to complement or expand our business, which may not be successful and we may lose up to the entire value of our investment in these acquisitions and transactions. Our future success may depend on the existence of, and our ability to capitalize on, opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies or partner with other companies that could complement, enhance or expand our current business or products or that might may otherwise offer us growth opportunities. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other business combination activities to complement or expand our business. In addition, we have entered, and may continue to enter, into strategic transactions and investments in North America, Asia and elsewhere. Any such acquisitions, transactions or investments that we are able to identify and complete may involve a number of risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • the diversion of our management’s attention from our existing business to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired or combined business or joint venture; • possible adverse effects on our operating results during the integration process; • these transactions, which could become substantial over time, involve a high degree of risk and could expose us to significant financial losses if the underlying ventures are not successful; and/or we are unable to achieve the intended objectives of the transaction. New acquisitions, joint ventures and other transactions may require the commitment of significant capital that would otherwise be directed to investments in our existing businesses or be distributed to shareholders. Commitment of this capital may cause us to defer or suspend any share repurchases or capital expenditures that we otherwise may have made. 18 Table of Contents We intend to make significant investments in new products, services, technologies and business areas that may not be profitable. We have made and will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for new products, services and related technologies, including new digital set-top box designs, as well as entry into new business areas. Investments in new technologies and business areas are inherently speculative and commercial success thereof depends on numerous factors including innovativeness, quality of service and support, and effectiveness of sales and marketing. We may not achieve revenue or profitability from such investments for a number of years, if at all. Moreover, even if such products, services, technologies and business area become profitable, their operating margins may be minimal. We may not be aware of certain foreign government laws or regulations or changes to them which could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Because regulatory schemes vary by country, we may be subject to laws or regulations in foreign countries of which we are not presently aware. If that were to be the case, we could be subject to sanctions by a foreign government that could materially and adversely affect our ability to operate in that country. We cannot assure you that any current regulatory approvals held by us are, or will remain, sufficient in the view of foreign regulatory authorities, or that any additional necessary approvals will be granted on a timely basis or at all, in all jurisdictions in which we wish to operate new satellites, or that applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions will not be unduly burdensome. The failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to operate satellites internationally could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenue and our overall competitive position. We, our customers and companies with whom we do business may be required to have authority from each country in which we or they provide services or provide our customers use of our satellites. Because laws and regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our customers and/or companies with which we do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. However, we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. If we are found to be liable for violating these laws, we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business depends on certain intellectual property rights and on not infringing the intellectual property rights of others. The loss of or infringement of our intellectual property rights could have a significant adverse impact on our business. We rely on our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as licenses and other agreements with our vendors and other parties, to use our technologies, conduct our operations and sell our products and services. Legal challenges to our intellectual property rights and claims by third parties of intellectual property infringement could require that we enter into royalty or licensing agreements on unfavorable terms, incur substantial monetary liability or be enjoined preliminarily or permanently from further use of the intellectual property in question or from the continuation of our businesses as currently conducted, which could require us to change our business practices or limit our ability to compete effectively or could otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Even if we believe any such challenges or claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend and may divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Moreover, due to the rapid pace of technological change, we rely in part on technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and if we are unable to obtain or continue to obtain licenses or other required intellectual property rights from these third parties on reasonable terms, our business, financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents Any failure or inadequacy of our information technology infrastructure could harm our business. The capacity, reliability and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructure are important to the operation of our current business, which would suffer in the event of system failures. Likewise, our ability to expand and update our information technology infrastructure in response to our growth and changing needs is important to the continued implementation of our new service offering initiatives. Our inability to expand or upgrade our technology infrastructure could have adverse consequences, which could include the delayed implementation of new offerings, product or service interruptions, and the diversion of development resources. We are party to various lawsuits which, if adversely decided, could have a significant adverse impact on our business, particularly lawsuits regarding intellectual property. We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business. Many entities, including some of our competitors, have or may in the future obtain patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect products or services related to those that we offer. In general, if a court determines that one or more of our products or services infringes valid intellectual property rights held by others, we may be required to cease developing or marketing those products or services, to obtain licenses from the holders of the intellectual property at a material cost, or to redesign those products or services in such a way as to avoid infringement. If those intellectual property rights are held by a competitor, we may be unable to license the necessary intellectual property rights at any price, which could adversely affect our competitive position. Please see further discussion under Item 1. Business — Patents and Trademarks of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have not been an independent company for a significant amount of time and we may be unable to make, on a timely or cost-effective basis, the changes necessary to operate as an independent company. Prior to our Spin-off from DISH Network, our business was operated by DISH Network as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. DISH Network’s senior management oversaw the strategic direction of our businesses and DISH Network performed various corporate functions for us, including, but not limited to: • human resources related functions; • accounting; • tax administration; • legal and external reporting; • treasury administration, investor relations, internal audit and insurance functions; and • information technology and telecommunications services. DISH Network and its affiliates are currently obligated to provide certain of these functions to us pursuant to the management services agreement and the professional services agreement between us and DISH Network. See “Related Party Transactions with DISH Network — Professional Services Agreement” and “Related Party Transactions with DISH Network – Management Services Agreement” set forth in our Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders under the caption “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.” If DISH Network does not continue to perform effectively the services that are called for under the management services agreement and the professional services agreement, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. In addition if, once the management services agreement and the professional services agreement terminate, we do not have in place our own systems and business functions, we do not have agreements with other providers of these services or we are not able to make these changes cost-effectively, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. 20 Table of Contents We rely on key personnel and the loss of their services may negatively affect our businesses. We believe that our future success will depend to a significant extent upon the performance of Mr. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, and certain other key executives. Certain of these key executives will also continue to devote significant time to their employment at DISH Network. The loss of Mr. Ergen or of certain other key executives or the ability of these certain other key executives to devote sufficient time and effort to our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although all of our executives will have certain agreements limiting their ability to work for or consult with competitors if they leave us, we do not have employment agreements with any of them. Risks Affecting Our “Digital Set-Top Box” Business We depend on sales of digital set-top boxes for nearly all of our revenue and a decline in sales of our digital set-top boxes would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our historical revenues consist primarily of sales of our digital set-top boxes. In addition, we currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, nearly all of our revenue from sales of our digital set-top boxes to DISH Network, Bell TV and Dish Mexico. If the sustained economic weakness persists, demand for digital set-top boxes from our three significant customers could decrease and, consequently, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. As disclosed by DISH Network in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, DISH Network had higher than normal inventory levels of digital set-top boxes and related components at December 31, 2010 and also experienced fewer gross subscriber additions during 2010. While we expect that DISH Network will continue to purchase digital set-top boxes and related components from us, DISH Network’s higher than normal inventory levels, could result in fewer purchases of digital set-top boxes and related components from us than it has purchased during the year ended December 31, 2010. Our business may suffer if our customer base does not compete successfully with existing and emerging competition. Our existing customers face competition from providers of digital media, including those companies that offer online services distributing movies, television shows and other video programming. As technologies develop, other means of delivering information and entertainment to television viewers are evolving. For example, online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming compete with our customers’ pay-TV services. To the extent that these technologies compete successfully against our customers for viewers, the ability of our existing customer base to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected. As a result, demand for our satellite television digital set-top boxes could decline and we may not be able to sustain our current revenue levels. Our future financial performance depends in part on our ability to penetrate new markets for digital set-top boxes. Our products were initially designed for, and have been deployed mostly by, providers of satellite-delivered digital television. Our sales of digital set-top boxes to providers of digital television other than providers of satellite-delivered digital television have not been significant. The cable set-top box market is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. In particular, we believe that most cable set-top boxes are sold by a small number of well entrenched competitors who have long-standing relationships with cable operators. This competition, and our perception by many potential customers as a competitor due to our affiliation with DISH Network, may make it more difficult for us to sell cable set-top boxes, and may result in pricing pressure, low profit margins, high sales and marketing expenses and limited market share, any of which could, to a certain extent, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Component pricing may remain stable or be negatively affected by inflation, increased demand, decreased supply, or other factors, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The substantial majority of our revenues are derived from the sale of digital set-top boxes. A significant portion of the production costs of digital set-top boxes relate to the purchase of electronic components, the costs of which have historically fallen over time. To the extent that component pricing does not decline or increases, whether due to 21 Table of Contents inflation, increased demand, decreased supply or other factors, we may not be able to pass on the impact of increasing raw materials prices or labor and other costs, to our customers, and we may not be able to operate profitably. For example, we entered into a digital set-top box contract extension with Bell TV under which we supply digital set-top boxes to Bell TV at fixed prices over the duration of the contract. Under this fixed-price arrangement, we bear any risk of increased costs because we are not able to pass any increase in our component pricing on to Bell TV. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further, which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The average selling price and gross margins of our digital set-top boxes has been decreasing and may decrease even further due to, among other things, an increase in the sales of lower-priced digital set-top boxes to DISH Network and increased competitive pricing pressure Furthermore, our ability to increase the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes is limited and our average selling price may decrease even further in response to competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, lack of demand for our new product introductions or other factors. If we are unable to increase or at least maintain the average selling prices of our digital set-top boxes, or if such selling prices further decline, and we are unable to respond in a timely manner by developing and introducing new products and continually reducing our product costs, our revenues and gross margin may be negatively affected, which will harm our financial position and results of operations. Our ability to sell our digital set-top boxes to other operators depends on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems utilized by these other operators. Our commercial success in selling our digital set-top boxes to cable television and other operators depends significantly on our ability to obtain licenses to use the conditional access systems deployed by these operators in our digital set-top boxes. In many cases, the intellectual property rights to these conditional access systems are owned by the set-top box manufacturer that currently provides the system operator with its set-top boxes. We cannot assure you that we will able to obtain required licenses on commercially favorable terms, or at all. If we do not obtain the necessary licenses, we may be delayed or prevented from pursuing the development of some potential products with cable or other television operators. Our failure to obtain a license to use the conditional access systems that we may require to develop or commercialize our digital set-top boxes with cable television or other operators, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. Growth in our “Digital Set-Top Box” business likely requires expansion of our sales to international customers, and we may be unsuccessful in expanding international sales. We believe that to grow our digital set-top box revenue and business and to build a large customer base, we must increase sales of our digital set-top boxes in international markets. We have had limited success in selling our digital set-top boxes internationally. To succeed in these sales efforts, we believe we must develop and manage new relationships with cable operators and other providers of digital television in international markets. If we do not succeed in our efforts to sell to these target markets and customers and deal with these challenges in our international operations, the size of our total addressable market may be limited. This, in turn, would harm our ability to grow our customer base and revenue. 22 Table of Contents If we are successful in growing sales of our digital set-top boxes to international customers, we may be subject to greater risks. We may be subject to greater risks than our competitors as a result of international expansion. We could be harmed financially and operationally by tariffs, taxes and other trade barriers that may be imposed on our products or services, or by political and economic instability in the countries in which we sell our digital set-top boxes. If we ever need to pursue legal remedies against our customers or our business partners located outside of the United States, it may be difficult for us to enforce our rights against them. Furthermore, we may be subject to currency risks with respect to payments from our international customers and our international customers may have difficulty obtaining U.S. currency and/or remitting payment due to currency exchange controls. The digital set-top box business is extremely competitive. Currently, there are many significant competitors in the set-top box business including several established companies who have sold set-top boxes to major cable operators in the United States for many years. These competitors include Motorola, Cisco (which owns Scientific Atlanta), Pace and Technicolor. In addition, a number of rapidly growing companies have recently entered the market, many of them with set-top box offerings similar to our existing satellite set-top box products. We also expect additional competition in the future from new and existing companies that do not currently compete in the market for set-top boxes. As the set-top box business evolves, our current and potential competitors may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties, including software and hardware companies that could acquire significant market share, which could adversely affect our business. We also face competition from set-top boxes that have been internally developed by digital video providers. Any of these competitive threats, alone or in combination with others, could seriously harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We expect to continue to face competition from new market entrants, principally located in Asia, that offer low cost set-top boxes. The set-top box market is intensely competitive, and market leadership changes frequently as a result of new products, designs and pricing. We expect to face additional competition from companies, principally located in Asia, which offer low cost set-top boxes, including set-top boxes that are modeled after our products or products of our principal competitors. The entry of these new competitors may result in increased pricing pressure in the market. If market prices are substantially reduced by such new entrants, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In particular, it may be difficult for us to make profitable sales in international markets where these new competitors are present and in which we have not previously made sales of set-top boxes. If we do not distinguish our products, particularly our retail products, through distinctive, technologically advanced features and design, as well as build and strengthen our brand recognition, our business could be harmed as we may not be able to effectively compete on price alone against new low cost market entrants that are principally located in Asia. If we do not otherwise compete effectively, demand for our products could decline, our gross margins could decrease, we could lose market share, and our revenues and earnings could decline. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and may experience quality or supply problems. Our digital set-top boxes are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture or associated software. Set-top boxes often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with their operation. Defects may also occur in components and products that we purchase from third-parties. There can be no assurance that we will be able to detect and fix all defects in the digital set-top boxes that we sell. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and harm to our reputation if we fail to detect or effectively address such issues through design, testing or warranty repairs. 23 Table of Contents If significant numbers of television viewers are unwilling to pay for pay-TV services that utilize digital set-top boxes, we may not be able to sustain our current revenue level. We are substantially dependent upon the ability of our customers to promote the delivery of pay-TV services, including, among others, premium programming packages and services that utilize technology incorporated into our digital set-top boxes, such as HD technology and IPTV, to generate future revenues. However, our customers may be unsuccessful in promoting value-added services or may promote alternative packages, such as free programming packages, in lieu of promoting packages that utilize our high-end digital set-top box offerings. If our customers are unable to develop and effectively market compelling reasons for their subscribers to continue to purchase their pay-TV services that utilize our more advanced digital set-top boxes, it will be difficult for us to sustain our historical revenues. This risk is exacerbated by the sustained economic weakness under which consumers become more cost-sensitive in their discretionary spending and by increasing consumer demand for online platforms that provide for the distribution and viewing of video programming that competes with our customers’ pay-TV services. Our reliance on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for several components used in our digital set-top boxes could restrict production, result in higher digital set-top box costs and delay deliveries to customers. We obtain many components for our digital set-top boxes from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Our reliance on a single or limited group of suppliers, particularly foreign suppliers, and our increasing reliance on subcontractors, involves several risks. These risks include a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, and reduced control over pricing, quality, and timely delivery of these components. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or subcontractors. An inability to obtain adequate deliveries or any other circumstances requiring us to seek alternative sources of supply could affect our ability to ship our digital set-top boxes on a timely basis, which could damage our relationships with current and prospective customers and harm our business, resulting in a loss of market share, and reduce revenues and income. We generally maintain low inventory levels and do not make binding long-term commitments to suppliers. As a result, it may be difficult in the future to obtain components required for our products or to increase the volume of components if demand for our products increases. The sustained economic weakness may cause certain suppliers that we rely on to cease operations which, in turn, may cause us to suffer disruptions to our supply chain or incur higher production costs. Our future growth depends on growing demand for advanced technologies. Future demand for our digital set-top boxes will depend significantly on the growing demand for advanced technologies, such as HDTV, 3D TV and broadband Internet connectivity. The effective delivery of advanced technologies, such as HDTV and 3D TV, will depend on digital television operators developing and building infrastructure to provide widespread HDTV and 3D TV programming. If the deployment of, or demand for, advanced technologies, such as HDTV, 3D TV and broadband Internet connectivity, is not as widespread or as rapid as we or our customers expect, our revenue growth will be limited. If the encryption and related security technology used in our digital set-top boxes is compromised, sales of our digital set-top boxes may decline. Our customers use encryption and related security technology obtained from us or our suppliers in the digital set-top boxes that they purchase from us to control access to their programming content. Such encryption and related security technology has been compromised in the past and may be compromised in the future even though we continue to respond with significant investment in security measures, such as updates in security software, that are intended to make signal theft more difficult. It has been our prior experience that security measures may only be effective for short periods of time or not at all. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in reducing or controlling theft of our customers’ programming content. As a result, sales of our digital set-top boxes may decline and we may incur additional costs in the future if security of our customers’ system is compromised. 24 Table of Contents Risks Affecting Our “Satellite Services” Business We currently face competition from established competitors in the satellite service business and may face competition from others in the future. In our “Satellite Services” business, we compete against larger, well-established satellite service companies, such as Intelsat, SES World Skies and Telesat. Because the satellite services industry is relatively mature, our growth strategy depends largely on our ability to displace current incumbent providers, which often have the benefit of long-term contracts with customers. These long-term contracts and other factors result in relatively high costs for customers to change service providers, making it more difficult for us to displace customers from their current relationships with our competitors. In addition, the supply of satellite capacity has increased in recent years, which makes it more difficult for us to sell our services in certain markets and to price our capacity at acceptable levels. Competition may cause downward pressure on prices and further reduce the utilization of our fleet capacity, both of which could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. Our “Satellite Services” business also competes with fiber optic cable and other terrestrial delivery systems, which may have a cost advantage, particularly in point-to-point applications where such delivery systems have been installed. Our owned and leased satellites in orbit are subject to significant operational and environmental risks that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellites are subject to significant operational risks while in orbit. These risks include malfunctions, commonly referred to as anomalies, which have occurred in our satellites and the satellites of other operators as a result of various factors, such as satellite design and manufacturing defects, problems with the power systems or control systems of the satellites and general failures resulting from operating satellites in the harsh environment of space. Although we work closely with the satellite manufacturers to determine and eliminate the cause of anomalies in new satellites and provide for redundancies of many critical components in the satellites, we may experience anomalies in the future, whether of the types described above or arising from the failure of other systems or components. Any single anomaly or series of anomalies could materially and adversely affect our operations and revenues and our relationship with current customers, as well as our ability to attract new customers for our satellite services. In particular, future anomalies may result in the loss of individual transponders on a satellite, a group of transponders on that satellite or the entire satellite, depending on the nature of the anomaly. Anomalies may also reduce the expected useful life of a satellite, thereby reducing the revenue that could be generated by that satellite, or create additional expenses due to the need to provide replacement or back-up satellites. Meteoroid events pose a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. The probability that meteoroids will damage those satellites increases significantly when the Earth passes through the particulate stream left behind by comets. Occasionally, increased solar activity also poses a potential threat to all in-orbit satellites. Some decommissioned spacecraft are in uncontrolled orbits, which pass through the geostationary belt at various points and present hazards to operational spacecraft, including our satellites. We may be required to perform maneuvers to avoid collisions and these maneuvers may prove unsuccessful or could reduce the useful life of the satellite through the expenditure of fuel to perform these maneuvers. The loss, damage or destruction of any of our satellites as a result of an electrostatic storm, collision with space debris, malfunction or other event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our satellites have minimum design lives ranging from 12 to 15 years, but could fail or suffer reduced capacity before then. Our ability to earn revenue depends on the usefulness of our satellites, each of which has a limited useful life. A number of factors affect the useful lives of the satellites, including, among other things, the quality of their design and construction, the durability of their component parts, the ability to continue to maintain proper orbit and control over the satellite’s functions, the efficiency of the launch vehicle used, and the remaining on-board fuel following orbit insertion. Generally, the minimum design life of each of our satellites ranges from 12 to 15 years. We can provide no assurance, however, as to the actual useful lives of the satellites. In the event of a failure or loss of any of our satellites, we may relocate another satellite and use it as a replacement for the failed or lost satellite, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such a relocation would require FCC approval and, among other things, a showing to the FCC that the replacement satellite would not cause additional interference compared to the failed or lost satellite. We cannot be certain that we could obtain such FCC approval. Our satellites under construction are subject to risks related to construction and launch that could limit our ability to utilize these satellites. Satellite construction and launch are subject to significant risks, including delays, launch failure and incorrect orbital placement. Certain launch vehicles that may be used by us have either unproven track records or have experienced launch failures in the past. The risks of launch delay and failure are usually greater when the launch vehicle does not have a track record of previous successful flights. Launch failures result in significant delays in the deployment of satellites because of the need both to construct replacement satellites, which can take more than three years, and to obtain other launch opportunities. Construction and launch delays could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If we decide not to procure launch insurance, or we decide to procure launch insurance but we are unable to do so or are unable to obtain launch insurance at rates we deem commercially reasonable, and a significant launch failure were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and fund future satellite procurement and launch opportunities. In addition, the occurrence of launch failures whether on our satellites or those of others may significantly reduce the availability of launch insurance on our satellites or make launch insurance premiums uneconomical. Our “Satellite Services” business is subject to risks of adverse government regulation. Our “Satellite Services” business is subject to varying degrees of regulation in the United States by the FCC, and other entities, and in foreign countries by similar entities and internationally by the ITU. These regulations are subject to the political process and have changed from time to time. Moreover, a substantial number of foreign countries in which we have, or may in the future make, an investment, regulate, in varying degrees, the ownership of satellites and the distribution and ownership of programming services and foreign investment in programming companies. Further material changes in law and regulatory requirements must be anticipated, and there can be no assurance that our business and the business of our affiliates will not be adversely affected by future legislation, new regulation or deregulation. Our business depends on FCC licenses that can expire or be revoked or modified and applications for FCC licenses that may not be granted. If the FCC were to cancel, revoke, suspend, or fail to renew any of our licenses or authorizations, or fail to grant our applications for FCC licenses, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, loss of a frequency authorization would reduce the amount of spectrum available to us, potentially reducing the amount of services available to our customers. The materiality of such a loss of authorizations would vary based upon, among other things, the orbital location, the frequency band and the availability of replacement spectrum. In addition, Congress often considers legislation that could affect us and enacts legislation that does affect us, and FCC proceedings to implement the Communications Act and enforce its regulations are ongoing. We cannot predict the outcomes of these legislative or regulatory proceedings or their effect on our business. 26 Table of Contents Our dependence on outside contractors could result in delays related to the design, manufacture and launch of our new satellites, which could in turn adversely affect our operating results. There are a limited number of manufacturers that are able to design and build satellites according to the technical specifications and standards of quality we require, including Astrium Satellites, Boeing Satellite Systems, Lockheed Martin, Space Systems/Loral and Thales Alenia Space. There are also a limited number of launch service providers able to launch such satellites, including International Launch Services, Arianespace, United Launch Alliance and Sea Launch Company. The loss of any of our manufacturers or launch service providers could increase the cost and result in the delay of the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Even if alternate suppliers for such services are available, we may have difficulty identifying them in a timely manner, we may incur significant additional expense in changing suppliers, and this could result in difficulties or delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites. Any delays in the design, construction or launch of our satellites could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We generally do not have commercial insurance coverage on the satellites we use and could face significant impairment charges if one of our satellites fails. Generally, we do not carry launch or in-orbit insurance on the satellites we use. We currently do not carry in-orbit insurance on any of our satellites and generally do not use commercial insurance to mitigate the potential financial impact of launch or in-orbit failures because we believe that the cost of insurance premiums is uneconomical relative to the risk of such failures. If one or more of our in-orbit satellites fail, we could be required to record significant impairment charges. Risks Relating to the Spin-Off We have potential conflicts of interest with DISH Network due to our common ownership and management. Questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between DISH Network and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. Areas in which conflicts of interest between DISH Network and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership. We continue to have significant overlap in directors and executive officers with DISH Network, which may lead to conflicting interests. Certain of our executive officers and directors, including Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, also serve as executive officers of DISH Network. Our General Counsel and Corporate Controller provide us services pursuant to a management services agreement we entered into with DISH Network and provide the same services to DISH Network. Our Board of Directors includes persons who are members of the Board of Directors of DISH Network, including Mr. Ergen, who serves as the Chairman of DISH Network and us. The executive officers and the members of our Board of Directors who overlap with DISH Network have fiduciary duties to DISH Network’s shareholders. Therefore, these individuals may have actual or apparent conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving or affecting each company. For example, there is potential for a conflict of interest when we or DISH Network look at acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both companies. In addition, many of our directors and officers own DISH Network stock and options to purchase DISH Network stock, certain of which they acquired or were granted prior to the Spin-off, including Mr. Ergen, who beneficially owns approximately 53.6% of the total equity (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and controls approximately 90.5% of the voting power of DISH Network. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 4,245,151 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 2.0% of the total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 1.6% of the total voting power of DISH Network. These ownership interests could create actual, apparent or potential conflicts of interest when these individuals are faced with decisions that could have different implications for our company and DISH Network. • Intercompany agreements related to the Spin-off. We entered into agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which it provides us certain management, administrative, accounting, tax, legal and other 27 Table of Contents services, for which we pay DISH Network an amount equal to DISH Network’s cost plus a fixed margin. In addition, we entered into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing and our responsibility for certain liabilities previously undertaken by DISH Network for certain of our businesses. We also entered into certain commercial agreements with DISH Network pursuant to which we are, among other things, obligated to sell digital set-top boxes and related equipment to DISH Network at specified prices. The terms of certain of these agreements were established while we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of DISH Network and were not the result of arm’s length negotiations. The allocation of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between DISH Network and us under the separation and ancillary agreements we entered into with DISH Network did not necessarily reflect what two unaffiliated parties might have agreed to. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms may have been more favorable, or less favorable, to us. In addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretation or any extension or renegotiation of these existing agreements. • Future intercompany transactions. In the future, DISH Network or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. Although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between DISH Network and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of committee of the non-interlocking directors or in certain instances non-interlocking management, there can be no assurance that the terms of any such transactions will be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in negotiations between unaffiliated third parties. • Business opportunities. DISH Network retains its interests in various companies that have subsidiaries or controlled affiliates that own or operate domestic or foreign services that may compete with services offered by our businesses. We may also compete with DISH Network when we participate in auctions for spectrum or orbital slots for our satellites. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and, even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. We do not have any agreements with DISH Network that restrict us from selling our products to competitors of DISH Network, nor do we have any agreement that prevents DISH Network from purchasing products from our competitors. We also do not have any agreements with DISH Network that would prevent us from competing with each other. In addition, the corporate opportunity policy set forth in our articles of incorporation addresses potential conflicts of interest for officers and directors of DISH Network who are also officers or directors of us. This policy could restrict our ability to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and the Securities Market We cannot assure you that there will not be deficiencies leading to material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We periodically evaluate and test our internal control over financial reporting to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. If in the future we are unable to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective (or if our auditors do not agree with our assessment of the effectiveness of, or are unable to express an opinion on, our internal control over financial reporting), investors, customers and business partners could lose confidence in the accuracy of our financial reports, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our business, investor confidence in our financial results may weaken, and our stock price may suffer. 28 Table of Contents It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so may be beneficial to our shareholders, because of our capital structure. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company that a shareholder may consider favorable. These provisions include the following: • a capital structure with multiple classes of common stock: a Class A that entitles the holders to one vote per share, a Class B that entitles the holders to ten votes per share, a Class C that entitles the holders to one vote per share, except upon a change in control of our company in which case the holders of Class C are entitled to ten votes per share and a non-voting Class D; • a provision that authorizes the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; • a provision limiting who may call special meetings of shareholders; and • a provision establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation we have a significant amount of authorized and unissued stock that would allow our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management, thereby protecting the continuity of management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of us. We are controlled by one principal shareholder who is our Chairman. Charles W. Ergen, our Chairman, beneficially owns approximately 43.8% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and possesses approximately 56.0% of the total voting power. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of us excludes 18,900,405 shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of our Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 33.5% of our total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 36.7% of our total voting power. Thus, Mr. Ergen has the ability to elect a majority of our directors and to control all other matters requiring the approval of our shareholders. As a result of Mr. Ergen’s voting power, we are a “controlled company” as defined in the Nasdaq listing rules and, therefore, are not subject to Nasdaq requirements that would otherwise require us to have (i) a majority of independent directors; (ii) a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors; (iii) compensation of our executive officers determined by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee composed solely of independent directors; and (iv) director nominees selected, or recommended for the Board’s selection, either by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee composed solely of independent directors. Mr. Ergen also beneficially owns approximately 53.6% of the total equity (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by Mr. Ergen into Class A Common Stock) and controls approximately 90.5% of the total voting power of DISH Network and continues to be the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of DISH Network, which directly and through its subsidiaries continues to be our largest customer, accounting for a substantial majority of our revenues. Mr. Ergen’s beneficial ownership of DISH Network excludes 4,245,151 shares of DISH Network Class A Common Stock issuable upon conversion of shares of DISH Network Class B Common Stock currently held by certain trusts established by Mr. Ergen for the benefit of his family. These trusts beneficially own approximately 2.0% of the total equity securities (assuming conversion of only the Class B Common Stock held by such trusts into Class A Common Stock) and possess approximately 1.6% of the total voting power of DISH Network. Risks Relating to our Acquisition of Hughes Governmental authorities must approve our acquisition of Hughes and could impose conditions on, delay, or refuse to approve the merger. We are subject to certain antitrust, competition, and communications laws of the United States and of other jurisdictions in which the Hughes Merger is subject to review and approval. We may be unable to obtain in the anticipated timeframe, or at all, the regulatory approvals required to complete the Hughes Merger. Governmental authorities such as the Federal Trade Commission or the FCC may seek concessions from us, which may include compliance with material restrictions or conditions on our business or the divestiture of portions of our or Hughes’ 29 Table of Contents business, as conditions to the approval of the Hughes Merger. These actions may have a material adverse effect on us, the combined businesses, or the value of the expected benefits arising from the Hughes Merger. Furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the necessary approvals could delay the completion of the Hughes Merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. Any delay in completing the Hughes Merger could also prevent us from realizing some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve if the Hughes Merger is successfully completed within its expected timeframe. We may not be able to obtain the financing required to fulfill our obligations under our agreement to acquire Hughes. We currently estimate that we will need to borrow approximately $1.8 billion to finance in part the cash consideration to Hughes stockholders and to refinance certain existing Hughes debt. We and ESS obtained an aggregate financing commitment of $1.0 billion in senior secured bridge financing and $800 million in senior unsecured bridge financing, in each case from Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch (collectively, the “Bridge Commitment”). Deutsche Bank’s obligations under the Bridge Commitment are subject to a number of conditions, including that the conditions to closing under the Hughes Agreement have been met (subject to certain exceptions); that we have a minimum amount of cash on hand at the closing; that we have provided certain financial statements and other information relating to us and Hughes in specified time periods; and that our aggregate indebtedness not exceed specified levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to satisfy these conditions. The initial term of the Bridge Commitment is six months. We have the option to extend the term of the Bridge Commitment to nine months so long as we have delivered certain required information, including certain financial statements, and have complied with our obligations to issue debt securities in lieu of borrowing under the Bridge Commitment. Subject to certain exceptions, we do not have the ability to terminate the Hughes Agreement until nine months after the date the Hughes Agreement was executed. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the Bridge Commitment will remain in effect for the duration of our obligations under the Hughes Agreement. We do not have the ability to terminate the Hughes Agreement if we are unable to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our obligations under the Hughes Agreement. If the funding under the Bridge Commitment were to become unavailable for any reason, there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our obligations under the Hughes Agreement. The terms of the financing related to our acquisition of Hughes will significantly reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness. Under the terms of the Bridge Commitment, we will be precluded from incurring additional indebtedness, subject to certain limited exceptions, until we have obtained permanent debt financing to replace the Bridge Commitment. These restrictions will significantly reduce our flexibility to pursue strategic or other transactions that would otherwise be financed in whole or in part through the issuance of indebtedness and will also significantly limit our ability to issue indebtedness for working capital or other purposes. The incurrence of indebtedness to finance our acquisition of Hughes will substantially increase our leverage. As of December 31, 2010, we had $413 million in total indebtedness and capital lease obligations. The incurrence of an additional $1.8 billion of indebtedness to finance the Hughes merger may have important consequences to us, including without limitation: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service obligations; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • impairing our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, satellite construction, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • requiring us to dedicate a material portion of our cash flows from operations to debt service requirements, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital needs, capital expenditures, research and development, satellite construction, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and operating environment; and 30 Table of Contents • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. Any of these risks could materially impair our ability to fund our operations or to expand our business and could place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness than we will have, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Although we expect that our acquisition of Hughes will benefit us, those expected benefits may not occur because of the complexity of the integration and other challenges. We and Hughes have operated and, until the merger is completed, will continue to operate, independently. Achieving the expected benefits of the merger will depend in part on our ability to integrate Hughes’ operations, technology and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. We will incur substantial direct transaction costs associated with the Hughes Merger, and additional costs associated with consolidation and integration of operations. The integration of Hughes will be complex, time-consuming, and expensive, and may disrupt our business or result in the loss of our or Hughes’ customers or key employees or the diversion of the attention of management. In addition, the integration process may strain the combined company’s financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. This may result in the diversion of management and financial resources from the combined company’s core business objectives. We cannot assure you, however, that the integration will be completed as quickly as expected or that the Hughes Merger will achieve its expected benefits. The challenges involved in this integration include but are not limited to: • integrating Hughes’ broadband technology and services with our satellite services and technology; • coordinating research and development activities to enhance introduction of new satellite and broadband technologies and services; • inability to migrate EchoStar and Hughes to a common enterprise resource planning information system to integrate all operations, sales, and administrative activities for the combined company in a timely and cost effective way; • coordinating the efforts of Hughes’ sales organization with our sales organization, including integrating Hughes’ consumer sales organization with our business sales focus; • convincing Hughes customers that the merger will not impair client service standards or product support; • integrating Hughes’ information technology systems and resources; • persuading employees in various locations that our respective business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale, and retaining key employees; and • any unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the transaction. If the total costs of the Hughes Merger exceed estimates or if the expected benefits of the Hughes Merger do not exceed its total cost, our business, financial position, and results of operation results could be materially adversely affected. If we are able to complete our acquisition of Hughes, we will be subject to the risks related to Hughes’ business. If we are able to complete the Hughes Merger, then we will be subject to the risks related to the Hughes’ business, some of which are different than the risks we currently face. See Hughes’ periodic filings with the SEC prior to the date hereof for a discussion of certain of the risks that Hughes’ business faces. We may face other risks described from time to time in periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 31 Table of Contents 