ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS In any business venture, there are substantial risks specific to the particular enterprise which cannot be ascertained until a potential acquisition, reorganization or merger candidate has been specifically identified; however, at a minimum, our present and proposed business operations will be highly speculative, and will be subject to the same types of risks inherent in any new or unproven venture, and will include those types of risk factors outlined below, among others that cannot now be determined. Risks Relating To Our Business Continuation as a Going Concern Our auditors' report on our audited December 31, 2011 and 2012 financial statements, and Note 3 to such financial statements, reflect a substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We intend to expand our operations purely through acquisition in 2013 and beyond. We will be carefully managing our overhead to maximize the effects of profitable acquisitions. However, we can give no assurance that these plans and efforts will be successful. We Need Additional Capital In the past we have experienced recurring net losses, including net losses of $(510,063) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, and we had an accumulated deficit of $(15,814,009) at December 31, 2012. We have a severe cash shortage, with approximately $1,000 of cash on hand at October 10, 2013. Therefore, we require additional funds to finance our business activities on an ongoing basis and to implement our acquisition strategy portraying our company as one able to provide a target subsidiary not only with cost savings results but also with additional working capital to finance and grow the business. Fluctuations in Operating Results by Acquisition We expect quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate, depending primarily on the following factors: · Our ability to obtain new business; · Our ability to generate significantly greater revenues than we have been able to generate to date, and to have revenues in such amount as to be able to satisfy our operational overhead, which now is not being met; 6 · Our ability to reduce selling, general and administrative cash expenses, particularly payroll compensation, by issuing stock to alleviate cash constraints, especially considering that our planned expansion by acquisition of other companies will result in increases in operating expenses, including, without limitation, as a result of the employment contracts we seek to enter into with the former owners of these companies; · The cost of attracting and hiring qualified employees. Risks of Expansion by Acquisition Our business strategy depends in large part on our ability to identify and acquire suitable companies, to expand our current expertise into the markets of our acquired companies, and to capitalize on the expertise of these companies to obtain new business in our current markets. Delays or failures in acquiring new companies would materially and adversely affect our planned growth. The success of this proposed strategy will depend on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: · securing any required approvals from our lender(s) and others; · our ability to effectively integrate an acquired company, including its information systems and personnel; · our ability to retain the services of the key employees of the acquired company; · availability of additional qualified operating personnel; · necessary or unavoidable increases in wages, or unanticipated operating costs; · the possibility of unforeseen events affecting the region particularly in which an acquired company operates; · adverse effects on existing business relationships resulting from the performance of an acquired company; and · diversion of management’s attention from operating our business. The acquisition transactions may also result in the following: · issuance of additional stock that would further dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; · incurring debt; · assumption of unknown or contingent liabilities; or · negative effects on reported operating results from acquisition-related charges and · amortization of acquired technology, goodwill and other intangibles. Therefore, our business strategy may not have the desired result, and notwithstanding effecting numerous acquisitions we still may be unable to achieve profitability or, if profitability should be achieved, to sustain it. Control by Management and Directorship Our company is effectively controlled by Management, specifically Messrs. Robert W. Chance, and Jeremy Briggs (“Management”), who collectively own approximately 16% (as of October 10, 2013) of our outstanding common stock, and specifically Messrs. Sean Sego, and Tom Sego, who hold a position on our board of directors own 7% of the Company’s outstanding common stock for a total controlled ownership of 23%. While we intend to pursue our business strategy as set forth herein, Management has broad discretion to adjust the application and allocation of our cash and other resources, whether in order to address changed circumstances and opportunities or otherwise. As a result of such discretion, our success is substantially dependent upon their judgment. In addition, Management is able to elect our board of directors and to cause the directors to declare or refrain from declaring dividends, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights which could adversely affect the voting power or other rights holders of our common stock, issue additional shares of capital stock and generally to direct our affairs and the use of all funds available to us. Any such preferred stock also could be utilized, under certain circumstances, as a method of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company. Any issuance of common or preferred stock could substantially dilute the percentage ownership of the company held by our current stockholders. 7 Dependence on Management Our success is dependent upon the active participation of our Management. We have entered into employment agreements (i) with Mr. Chance, for an initial two-year term which expired February 14, 2009, and continues annually thereafter, and (ii) with Mr. Briggs which expired on December 31, 2012, as of January 1, 2013, we placed Mr. Briggs on a consulting agreement and have accrued his services under professional fees, until such time as we are able to execute our acquisition strategy. In addition, we do not maintain any "key man" insurance on any of their lives. In the event we should lose the services of any of their people, our business would suffer materially. There can be no assurance that we would be able to employ qualified person(s) on acceptable terms to replace them. Dependence on Third-Party Suppliers Our manufacturing processes require that we buy a high volume of components from third party suppliers. Our reliance on these suppliers involves certain risks, including: · The cost of these items might increase, for reasons such as inflation and increases in the price of the precious metals, if any, or other internal parts used to make such items, which could cause our costs to complete a job to exceed the estimate we used to create our bid; · Poor quality could adversely affect the reliability and reputation of our product; and · A shortage of components could adversely affect our manufacturing efficiencies and delivery capabilities, which could prevent us from obtaining, or hinder our ability to obtain, new business, which could jeopardize our ability to comply with the requirements of our contracts. Any of these uncertainties also could adversely affect our business reputation and otherwise impair our profitability and ability to compete. Risks Related to Our Industry in General Exposure to Product and Professional Liability Claims In the ordinary course of our business, we may be subject to product and professional liability claims alleging that products we sold or services that we provided failed or had adverse effects. We maintain liability insurance at a level which we believe to be adequate. A successful claim in excess of the policy limits of the liability insurance could materially adversely affect our business. As a user of products manufactured by others, we believe we may have recourse against the manufacturer in the event of a product liability claim. There can be no assurance, however, that recourse against a manufacturer would be successful, or that any manufacturer will maintain adequate insurance or otherwise be able to pay such liability. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 