ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.Risks Related to Our BusinessWe have limited operating experience and a history of net losses, and we may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have a limited operating history, with our first commercial sales of CoolSculpting for the selective reduction of fat in the United States occurring in late 2010. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including net losses of approximately $30.1 million in 2012, $9.6 million in 2011 and $13.5 million in 2010 and as of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $113.8 million. We will continue to incur significant expenses for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales and marketing, research and development, and clinical and regulatory activities. We may never generate sufficient revenues to achieve or sustain profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. Further, because of our limited operating history and because the market for aesthetic products is rapidly evolving, we have limited insight into the trends or competitive products that may emerge and affect our business. We may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which could harm our business. We may not be able to successfully address any or all of these risks, and the failure to adequately do so could cause our business, results of operations, and financial condition to suffer. We may not be able to correctly estimate or control our future operating expenses, which could lead to cash shortfalls. Our operating expenses may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include:•our commercialization strategy; •the time, resources, and expense required to develop and conduct clinical trials and seek additional regulatory clearances and approvals for additional treatment indications for CoolSculpting and for any additional products we may develop; •the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, defending, and enforcing patent claims and other patent related costs, including litigation costs and the results of such litigation; 21Table of Contents•any adverse events associated with CoolSculpting or product liability or other lawsuits related to our products and the costs associated with defending them or the results of such lawsuits; •the costs to attract and retain personnel with the skills required for effective operations; and •the costs associated with being a public company. Further, our budgeted expense levels are based in part on our expectations concerning future revenues from CoolSculpting. We may be unable to reduce our expenditures in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfalls in revenue. Accordingly, a significant shortfall in market acceptance or demand for CoolSculpting could have an immediate and material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. Economic uncertainty has reduced and may continue to reduce patient demand for our products; if there is not sufficient patient demand for the procedures for which our products are used, practitioner demand for these systems could drop, resulting in unfavorable operating results. The aesthetic industry in which we operate is particularly vulnerable to economic trends. The decision to undergo a procedure from our systems is driven by consumer demand. Most procedures performed using our systems are elective procedures, the cost of which must be borne by the patient, and are not reimbursable through government or private health insurance. In times of economic uncertainty or recession, individuals often reduce the amount of money that they spend on discretionary items, including aesthetic procedures. The general economic difficulties being experienced and the lack of availability of consumer credit for some of our customers' patients are adversely affecting the market in which we operate. If the economic hardships our customers' patients face continue or worsen, our business would be negatively impacted and our financial performance would be materially harmed in the event that any of the above factors discourage patients from seeking the procedures for which our products are used. Due to a number of factors outside of our direct control, our financial results may fluctuate unpredictably, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our limited operating history and the rapid evolution of the markets for medical technologies and aesthetic products make it difficult for us to predict our future performance. In addition, a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, may contribute to fluctuations in our financial results, such as: •physician demand for purchasing CoolSculpting Systems may vary from quarter to quarter; •the inability for physicians to obtain any necessary financing; •changes in the length of the sales process; •performance of our international distributors; •media coverage of CoolSculpting and positive or negative patient experiences, the procedures or products of our competitors, or our industry; •our ability to maintain our current or obtain further regulatory clearances or approvals; •delays in, or failure of, product and component deliveries by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers; •seasonal or other variations in patient demand for aesthetic procedures; •introduction of new aesthetic procedures or products that compete with CoolSculpting; and •adverse changes in the economy that reduce patient demand for elective aesthetic procedures. Fluctuations in our financial results could negatively affect our stock price.We are dependent upon the success of CoolSculpting, which has a limited commercial history. If the market acceptance for CoolSculpting fails to grow significantly, our business and future prospects will be harmed. We commenced commercial sales of CoolSculpting for the selective reduction of fat in the United States in late 2010, and expect that the revenues we generate from sales of our CoolSculpting System and from CoolSculpting consumable revenues will account for substantially all of our revenues for the next several years. Accordingly, our success depends on the continued and growing acceptance among physicians and patients of CoolSculpting as a preferred aesthetic treatment for the selective reduction of fat. Although we have received FDA clearance to market CoolSculpting for the selective reduction of fat in the flanks and abdomen in the United States and are approved or are otherwise free to market CoolSculpting in 55 international markets, increased acceptance among physicians and patients of CoolSculpting may not occur. We cannot assure you that demand for CoolSculpting will continue or grow among physicians and patients. Because we expect to derive substantially all of our revenue for the foreseeable future from sales of CoolSculpting Systems and from fees associated with each CoolSculpting procedure, any failure of this product to satisfy physician or patient demand will harm our business and future prospects. 22Table of ContentsOur ability to market CoolSculpting in the United States is limited to the non-invasive reduction of fat around the flanks and abdomen, and if we want to expand our marketing claims, we will need to obtain additional FDA clearances or approvals, which may not be granted. We currently have FDA clearance to market CoolSculpting in the United States for the non-invasive reduction of fat around the flanks, an area commonly known as the “love handles” and for the abdomen area. This clearance restricts our ability to market or advertise CoolSculpting treatment for other specific body areas, which could limit physician and patient adoption of CoolSculpting. Developing and promoting new treatment indications and protocols and new treatment applicators for our CoolSculpting System are elements of our growth strategy, but we cannot predict when or if we will receive the clearances required to so implement those elements. In addition, we will be required to conduct additional clinical trials or studies to support our applications, which may be time-consuming and expensive, and may produce results that do not result in FDA clearances. In the event that we do not obtain additional FDA clearances, our ability to promote CoolSculpting in the United States will be limited. Because we anticipate that sales in the United States will account for substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future, ongoing restrictions on our ability to market CoolSculpting in the United States could harm our business and limit our revenue growth. Physicians must make significant capital expenditures to purchase our CoolSculpting Systems, which makes it difficult to increase our customer base, and if we are not able to convince physicians to make this capital expenditure, our ability to grow our business will be harmed. Physicians must make significant capital expenditures to purchase our CoolSculpting Systems and our ability to increase the number of physicians willing to make these significant capital expenditures and make CoolSculpting a significant part of their practices depends on the success of our sales and marketing programs. We must be able to demonstrate that the cost of our CoolSculpting System and the revenue that a physician can derive from performing CoolSculpting procedures are compelling when compared to the costs and revenues associated with alternative aesthetic treatments the physician may offer. In addition, alternative treatments may be invasive, minimally-invasive, or non-invasive and, we must, in some cases, overcome a bias against non-invasive aesthetic procedures for fat reduction, principally from plastic surgeons. Further, we believe our marketing programs, including our co-op physician marketing programs, will be critical in driving additional CoolSculpting procedures, but these programs require physician commitment and involvement to succeed. If we are unable to increase physician adoption and use of CoolSculpting, our financial performance will be adversely affected. If there is not sufficient patient demand for CoolSculpting procedures, our financial results and future prospects will be harmed. The CoolSculpting procedure is an elective procedure, the cost of which must be borne by the patient, and is not reimbursable through government or private health insurance. The decision to undergo a CoolSculpting procedure is thus driven by patient demand, which may be influenced by a number of factors, such as: •the success of our sales and marketing programs, including our co-op physician marketing initiatives, as to which we have limited experience; •the cost, safety, and effectiveness of CoolSculpting versus other aesthetic treatments; •the price of CoolSculpting relative to other aesthetic products and alternative treatments;•the willingness of patients to wait up to four months post-treatment to notice the aesthetic results of a CoolSculpting procedure;•the ability to obtain regulatory clearance to market CoolSculpting for additional treatment indications in the United States;•the adverse event profile of CoolSculpting, including warnings, side effects, and contraindications, which are subject to change;•the extent to which our physician customers recommend CoolSculpting to their patients; •our success in attracting consumers who have not previously purchased an aesthetic procedure; •the extent to which our CoolSculpting procedure satisfies patient expectations; •our ability to properly train our physician customers in the use of CoolSculpting such that their patients do not experience excessive discomfort during treatment or adverse side effects; •consumer sentiment about the benefits and risks of aesthetic procedures generally and CoolSculpting in particular; •the success of any direct-to-consumer marketing efforts we initiate; and •general consumer confidence, which may be impacted by economic and political conditions. Our success depends in part upon patient satisfaction with the effectiveness of CoolSculpting. To generate repeat and referral business, patients must be satisfied with the effectiveness of CoolSculpting. Our clinical studies demonstrate that a single CoolSculpting procedure noticeably and measurably reduces the fat layer within a treated fat bulge without requiring diet or exercise. However, we designed CoolSculpting to address the aesthetic concerns of individuals who have stubborn fat bulges. Although there are no technical or regulatory restrictions on the use of CoolSculpting based on patient weight, 23Table of Contentswe believe patients who are significantly obese and who do not have specific fat bulges but require significant fat reduction to achieve aesthetic results are better candidates for invasive and minimally-invasive procedures. In addition, results obtained from a CoolSculpting procedure occur gradually over a period of two to four months after treatment and patient perception of their results may vary. Although we train our physician customers to select the appropriate patient candidates for a CoolSculpting procedure, explain to their patients the time period over which the results from a CoolSculpting procedure will occur, and take before and after photographs of a patient, our physician customers may not select appropriate patient candidates or CoolSculpting may produce results that may not meet patients' expectations. If patients are not satisfied with the long term aesthetic benefits or safety of CoolSculpting, or feel that it is too expensive for the results obtained, our reputation and future sales will suffer. As market experience of CoolSculpting increases and more procedures are performed, we may learn more about the adverse event profile of the device and receive reports of unexpected adverse events. For example, we have received reports of rare side effects, including late-onset pain, subcutaneous induration which is hardening of normally soft tissue under the skin, and paradoxical hyperplasia.We have limited experience with our direct sales and marketing force and any failure to build and manage our direct sales and marketing force effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on a direct sales force to sell CoolSculpting in the United States, Canada and four key markets in Europe (United Kingdom, Germany, France and Spain). To meet our anticipated sales objectives, we expect to grow our direct sales and marketing organization in these countries significantly over the next several years and intend to opportunistically build a direct sales and marketing force in certain international markets. There are significant risks involved in building and managing our sales and marketing organization, including risks related to our ability to: •hire qualified individuals as needed; •generate sufficient leads within our target physician group for our sales force; •provide adequate training for the effective sale and marketing of CoolSculpting; •retain and motivate our direct sales and marketing professionals; and •effectively oversee geographically dispersed sales and marketing teams. Our failure to adequately address these risks could have a material adverse effect on our ability to increase sales and use of our CoolSculpting Systems, which would cause our revenues to be lower than expected and harm our results of operations. In addition, as we transition to direct sales in certain international markets, consistent with our sales strategy, the transition may result in a slow-down of growth or even a reduction in sales in those markets during the transition process as our distributors anticipate losing the ability to sell our products. Furthermore, our transition to direct sales in certain international markets could impact the performance of distributors in otherwise unaffected international markets as distributors may anticipate that their territories may be transitioned in the future. To market and sell CoolSculpting in markets outside of North America, we mainly depend on third-party distributors. We currently depend on third-party distributors to sell, market, and service our CoolSculpting Systems in markets outside of North America and to train our physician customers in such markets. We may need to engage additional third-party distributors to expand in new markets outside of North America. We are subject to a number of risks associated with our dependence on these third parties, including: •we lack day-to-day control over the activities of third-party distributors; •third-party distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market, sell, and service our systems to the level of our expectations; •third-party distributors may not be as selective as we would be in choosing physicians to purchase CoolSculpting Systems or as effective in training physicians in marketing and patient selection; •third-party distributors may terminate their arrangements with us on limited, or no, notice or may change the terms of these arrangements in a manner unfavorable to us; and •disagreements with our distributors could require or result in costly and time-consuming litigation or arbitration which we could be required to conduct in jurisdictions with which we are not familiar. If we fail to establish and maintain satisfactory relationships with our third-party distributors, our revenues and market share may not grow as anticipated, and we could be subject to unexpected costs, each of which would harm our results of operations and financial condition. 24Table of ContentsTo successfully market and sell CoolSculpting in markets outside of North America, we must address many issues with which we have limited experience. Sales in markets outside of North America accounted for approximately 26% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. We believe that a significant percentage of our business will continue to come from sales in markets outside of North America through increased penetration in countries where we currently market and sell CoolSculpting directly and through our third-party distributor network, combined with expansion into new international markets. However, international sales are subject to a number of risks, including: •difficulties in staffing and managing our international operations; •increased competition as a result of more products and procedures receiving regulatory approval or otherwise free to market in international markets; •longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; •reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; •export restrictions, trade regulations, and foreign tax laws; •fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •foreign certification and regulatory clearance or approval requirements; •difficulties in developing effective marketing campaigns in unfamiliar foreign countries; •customs clearance and shipping delays; •political, social, and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks, and security concerns in general; •preference for locally produced products; •potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added tax systems, tax inefficiencies related to our corporate structure, and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; •the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; and •increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities. If one or more of these risks were realized, it could require us to dedicate significant financial and management resources which could negatively affect our financial results.Our inability to effectively compete with our competitors may prevent us from achieving significant market penetration or improving our operating results. The medical technology and aesthetic product markets are highly competitive and dynamic, and are characterized by rapid and substantial technological development and product innovations. Demand for CoolSculpting could be limited by the products and technologies offered by our competitors. We designed CoolSculpting to address the aesthetic concerns of individuals who have stubborn fat bulges that may not respond to diet or exercise. Patients who are obese and who do not have specific fat bulges but require significant fat reduction to achieve aesthetic results are candidates for invasive and minimally-invasive procedures, such as liposuction and laser-assisted liposuction. Patients who do not require significant fat reduction to achieve meaningful aesthetic results explore non-invasive fat reduction and body contouring procedures to avoid the pain, expense, downtime, and surgical risks associated with invasive and minimally-invasive procedures. In the United States, the FDA has cleared the marketing of a laser energy-based product for body contouring. The laser energy-based product, marketed by Erchonia Corporation, is used to perform a non-invasive procedure reported to be safe and easy to perform, without causing patient pain. In September 2011, the FDA cleared the marketing of an ultrasound energy-based product for body contouring offered by Solta Medical, Inc., a publicly traded company. This ultrasound energy-based product utilizes heat to non-invasively eliminate fat cells in a single procedure. We believe that the marketing of this product extended the sales cycle for CoolSculpting during 2012 and may continue to have an impact on our sales in the future.Due to less stringent regulatory requirements, there are many more aesthetic products and procedures available for use in international markets than are approved for use in the United States. For example, multiple ultrasound based products have been cleared for marketing outside the United States. There are also fewer limitations on the claims our competitors in international markets can make about the effectiveness of their products and the manner in which they can market them. As a result, we face more competition in these markets than in the United States. We also compete generally against medical technology and aesthetic companies, including those offering products and technologies unrelated to fat reduction, for physician resources and mind share. Some of our competitors have a broad range of product offerings, large direct sales forces, and long-term customer relationships with our target physicians, which could inhibit our market penetration efforts. Our potential physician customers also may need to recoup the cost of expensive products that they have already purchased from our competitors, and thus they may decide to delay purchasing, or not to purchase, our CoolSculpting System. 25Table of ContentsMany of our competitors are large, experienced companies that have substantially greater resources and brand recognition than we do. Competing in the medical technology and aesthetic markets could result in price-cutting, reduced profit margins, and limited market share, any of which would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Third parties may attempt to produce counterfeit versions of our products and may harm our ability to collect fees from sales of consumables, negatively affect our reputation, or harm patients and subject us to product liability. Third parties may seek to develop counterfeit CoolCards and procedure packs that are compatible with our CoolSculpting System and available to practitioners at lower prices than our own. If security features incorporated into the design of our CoolSculpting System are unable to prevent the introduction of counterfeit CoolCards, we may not be able to monitor the number of procedures performed using our CoolSculpting System. Practitioners may be able to make unauthorized use of our CoolSculpting System and our ability to collect fees from sales of consumables may be compromised. Consumable revenues represented 49% and 32% of total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and an inability to collect them in the future would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if counterfeit products are used with or in place of our own, we could be subject to product liability lawsuits resulting from the use of damaged or defective goods and suffer damage to our reputation. For example, in January 2013, the Mercantile Court in Spain rendered its ruling on the merits of Massachusetts General Hospital's, or MGH, and our request for a permanent injunction against Clinipro's LipoCryo device based on Clinipro's infringement of two European patents owned by MGH and globally licensed exclusively to us. While the Mercantile Court had earlier granted in 2012 MGH's and our request for a preliminary injunction, the Court, in a January ruling, denied the request for a permanent injunction. The Mercantile Court's ruling affects only Clinipro's activities in Spain and we have appealed the ruling.We have limited experience in manufacturing our CoolSculpting System, and if we are unable to manufacture our CoolSculpting System in high-quality commercial quantities successfully and consistently to meet demand, our growth will be limited.Prior to receiving FDA clearance in 2009, we manufactured our CoolSculpting System in limited quantities sufficient only to meet the needs of our clinical studies. We currently manufacture our CoolSculpting System and related procedure packs, containing disposable CoolGels and CoolLiners, through a combination of direct manufacturing at our facility in Dublin, California and through third-party manufacturers. To manufacture our CoolSculpting System in the quantities that we believe will be required to meet anticipated market demand, we and our third-party manufacturers will need to increase manufacturing capacity, which will involve significant challenges and may require additional regulatory approvals. In addition, the development of commercial-scale manufacturing capabilities will require us and our third-party manufacturers to invest substantial additional funds and hire and retain the technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. Neither we nor our third-party manufacturers may successfully complete any required increase to existing manufacturing processes in a timely manner, or at all. If there is a disruption to our or our third-party manufacturers' operations, we will have no other means of producing our CoolSculpting Systems until we restore the affected facilities or develop alternative manufacturing facilities. Additionally, any damage to or destruction of our or our third-party manufacturers' facilities or equipment may significantly impair our ability to manufacture CoolSculpting Systems on a timely basis. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to produce CoolSculpting Systems in sufficient quantities to meet anticipated customer demand, our revenues, business, and financial prospects would be harmed. The lack of experience we and our manufacturing partners have in producing commercial quantities of our CoolSculpting System may also result in quality issues, and result in product recalls. Manufacturing delays related to quality control could negatively impact our ability to bring our CoolSculpting System and procedure packs to market, harm our reputation, and decrease our revenues. Any recall could be expensive and generate negative publicity, which could impair our ability to market our CoolSculpting System and further affect our results of operations. We outsource the manufacturing of key elements of our CoolSculpting System to a single third-party manufacturer.OnCore Manufacturing LLC, or OnCore, manufactures our CoolCards used with our CoolSculpting System. In addition, our disposable CoolLiners are manufactured by Coastline International, Inc. in Tijuana, Mexico. If the operations of third-party manufacturers are interrupted or if they are unable to meet our delivery requirements due to capacity limitations, regulatory problems or other constraints, we may be limited in our ability to fulfill new customer orders or to repair equipment at current customer sites. Any change to another contract manufacturer would likely entail significant delay, require us to devote substantial time and resources, and could involve a period in which our products could not be produced in a timely or consistently high-quality manner, any of which could harm our reputation and results of operations. 26Table of ContentsOur manufacturing operations and those of our key third-party manufacturers are dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages and price fluctuations, which could harm our business. Our CoolSculpting System contains two critical components, the integrated circuit contained in the CoolSculpting control unit and the CoolCard, which is manufactured by Renesas Electronics Corporation in Japan, and the connector that attaches our applicators to the control unit, which is manufactured by Hypertronics Corporation in Hudson, Massachusetts. The single source suppliers of these two critical components may not be replaced without significant effort and delay in production. We do not have supply agreements with the suppliers of these critical components beyond purchase orders. However, we maintain a safety stock inventory for these critical components equal to one year of forecasted part requirements of the integrated circuit and one month of connectors in finished assemblies, as well as at least three months supply of connectors to support open purchase orders, such forecasted amounts may be inaccurate and we may experience shortages as a result of serious supply problems with these manufacturers. In addition, several other non-critical components and materials that compose our CoolSculpting System are currently manufactured by a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In many of these cases, we have not yet qualified alternate suppliers and rely upon purchase orders, rather than long-term supply agreements. A supply interruption or an increase in demand beyond our current suppliers' capabilities could harm our ability to manufacture our CoolSculpting System until new sources of supply are identified and qualified. Our reliance on these suppliers subjects us to a number of risks that could harm our business, including: •interruption of supply resulting from modifications to or discontinuation of a supplier's operations; •delays in product shipments resulting from uncorrected defects, reliability issues, or a supplier's variation in a component; •a lack of long-term supply arrangements for key components with our suppliers; •inability to obtain adequate supply in a timely manner, or to obtain adequate supply on commercially reasonable terms; •difficulty and cost associated with locating and qualifying alternative suppliers for our components in a timely manner; •production delays related to the evaluation and testing of products from alternative suppliers, and corresponding regulatory qualifications; •delay in delivery due to our suppliers prioritizing other customer orders over ours; •damage to our brand reputation caused by defective components produced by our suppliers; •increased cost of our warranty program due to product repair or replacement based upon defects in components produced by our suppliers; and •fluctuation in delivery by our suppliers due to changes in demand from us or their other customers. Any interruption in the supply of components or materials, or our inability to obtain substitute components or materials from alternate sources at acceptable prices in a timely manner, could impair our ability to meet the demand of our customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business. We forecast sales to determine requirements for components and materials used in our CoolSculpting System, and if our forecasts are incorrect, we may experience delays in shipments or increased inventory costs. We keep limited materials, components, and finished products on hand. To manage our operations with our third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we forecast anticipated product orders and material requirements to predict our inventory needs and enter into purchase orders on the basis of these requirements. Several components of our CoolSculpting System require an order lead time of six months. Our limited historical commercial experience and growth may not provide us with enough data to consistently and accurately predict future demand. If our business expands, and our demand for components and materials increase beyond our estimates, our manufacturers and suppliers may be unable to meet our demand. In addition, if we underestimate our component and material requirements, we may have inadequate inventory, which could interrupt, delay, or prevent delivery of our CoolSculpting System to our customers. In contrast, if we overestimate our component and material requirements, we may have excess inventory, which would increase our expenses. Any of these occurrences would negatively affect our financial performance and the level of satisfaction our physician customers have with our business. Even though our CoolSculpting System is marketed solely to physicians, there exists a potential for misuse, which could harm our reputation and our business. We and our independent distributors market and sell CoolSculpting solely to physicians. Under state law in the United States, our physician customers can generally allow nurse practitioners, technicians, and other non-physicians to perform CoolSculpting procedures under their direct supervision. Similarly, in markets outside of the United States, physicians can allow non-physicians to perform CoolSculpting procedures under their supervision. Although we and our distributors provide training on the use of CoolSculpting Systems, we do not supervise the procedures performed with our CoolSculpting System, nor can we be assured that direct physician supervision of procedures occurs according to our recommendations. The potential misuse of our CoolSculpting System by physicians and non-physicians may result in adverse treatment outcomes, which could harm our reputation and expose us to costly product liability litigation. 27Table of ContentsProduct liability suits could be brought against us due to defective design, labeling, material, or workmanship, or misuse of our CoolSculpting System, or unanticipated adverse events, and could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages, an increase in our insurance rates and substantial harm to our reputation. If our CoolSculpting System is defectively designed, manufactured, or labeled, contains defective components, or is misused, we may become subject to substantial and costly litigation by our physician customers or their patients. Misusing our CoolSculpting System or failing to adhere to operating guidelines can cause skin damage and underlying tissue damage and, if our operating guidelines are found to be inadequate, we may be subject to liability. Furthermore, if a patient is injured in an unexpected manner or suffers unanticipated adverse events after undergoing a CoolSculpting procedure, even if the procedure was performed in accordance with our operating guidelines, we may be subject to product liability claims. For example, we have received reports of rare side effects, including late-onset pain, subcutaneous induration which is hardening of normally soft tissue under the skin, and paradoxical hyperplasia and claims related to these and other side effects may subject us to additional liability. Product liability claims could divert management's attention from our core business, be expensive to defend, and result in sizable damage awards against us. We currently have product liability insurance, but it may not be adequate to cover us against potential liability. In addition, we may not be able to maintain insurance in amounts or scope sufficient to provide us with adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. Any product liability claims brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing continuing coverage, could harm our reputation in the industry, and could reduce product sales. Product liability claims in excess of our insurance coverage would be paid out of cash reserves, harming our financial condition and reducing our operating results. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and certain personally identifiable information of our physician customers and employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance, and transmission of this information is important to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to malfeasance, employee error, or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, or stolen. Any such access, disclosure, or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, damage our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. We have increased the size of our company significantly and over a short period, and difficulties managing our growth could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have increased our headcount from 64 at January 1, 2010 to 209 at December 31, 2012, and plan to continue to hire a substantial number of additional employees as we increase our commercialization and sales activities for CoolSculpting. This growth has placed and may continue to place a strain on our management and our administrative, operational, and financial infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth requires the continued improvement of our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems, and procedures, particularly to meet the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively or if we are unable to attract additional highly qualified personnel, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be harmed. We depend on skilled and experienced personnel to operate our business effectively. If we are unable to recruit, hire, and retain these employees, our ability to manage and expand our business will be harmed, which would impair our future revenues and profitability. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience, and efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. We do not have employment contracts with any of our executive officers or other key employees that require these officers to stay with us for any period of time. Any of our executive officers and other key employees may terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any of our executive officers and other key employees could weaken our management expertise and harm our business operations. We only maintain key man insurance for our Chief Executive Officer. In addition, our ability to retain our skilled employees and our success in attracting and hiring new skilled employees will be a critical factor in determining whether we will be successful in the future. We may not be able to meet our future hiring needs or retain our existing employees. We will face significant challenges and risks in hiring, training, managing, and retaining sales and marketing, product development, financial reporting, and regulatory compliance employees, many of whom are geographically dispersed. Failure to attract and retain personnel, particularly our sales and marketing, product development, financial reporting, and regulatory compliance personnel, would materially harm our ability to compete effectively and grow our business. 28Table of ContentsWe may need to raise additional funds in the future, and such funds may not be available on a timely basis, or at all. Until such time, if ever, as we can achieve positive cash flows from sales of our CoolSculpting System and from CoolSculpting consumables, we will be required to finance our operations with our cash resources. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to support our operations. We cannot be certain that additional capital will be available as needed or on acceptable terms, or at all. If we require additional capital at a time when investment in our company, in medical technology or aesthetic product companies or the marketplace in general is limited, we may not be able to raise such funds at the time that we desire, or at all. If we do raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible securities, the percentage ownership of holders of our common stock could be significantly diluted and these newly issued securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we obtain debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we could be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies, and products or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we fail to manage our exposure to global financial and securities market risk successfully, our operating results and financial statements could be materially impacted. The primary objective of most of our investment activities is to preserve principal. To achieve this objective, a majority of our marketable investments are investment grade, liquid, fixed-income securities and money market instruments denominated in U.S. dollars. If the carrying value of our investments exceeds the fair value, and the decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we will be required to write down the value of our investments, which could materially harm our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the performance of certain securities in our investment portfolio correlates with the credit condition of the U.S. financial sector. In our current unstable credit environment, we might incur significant realized, unrealized or impairment losses associated with these investments. Our ability to use net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards to offset future tax liabilities may be limited. We have substantial federal net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, and state and federal tax credit carryforwards. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs and tax credit carryforwards. In addition, under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or the Code, a corporation that experiences a more-than 50% ownership change over a three-year testing period is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and tax credit carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Future changes in our stock ownership, many of the causes of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Our NOLs and tax credit carryforwards may also be impaired under state law. As a result of these limitations, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs and tax credit carryforwards. Risks Related to Regulation The regulatory clearance and approval process is expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain, and the failure to obtain and maintain required regulatory clearances and approvals could prevent us from commercializing our CoolSculpting System and any future products we develop. We are investing in the research and development of new products and procedures based on our proprietary controlled cooling technology platform. Our products are subject to 510(k) clearance by the FDA prior to their marketing for commercial use in the United States, and to any approvals required by foreign governmental entities prior to their marketing outside the United States. In addition, if we make any changes or modifications to our CoolSculpting System that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or would constitute a change in its intended use, we may be required to submit a new application for 510(k) clearance, premarketing approval or foreign regulatory approvals. For example, we will be required to submit new 510(k) applications to expand our ability to market CoolSculpting for use on other areas of the body beyond the flanks and abdomen. The 510(k) clearance processes, as well as the process for obtaining foreign approvals, can be expensive, time-consuming, and uncertain. We anticipate that the direct clinical costs to support a 510(k) application for an additional indication for CoolSculpting will range from $0.25 million to $0.5 million. In addition to the time required to conduct clinical trials, it generally takes from four to twelve months from submission of an application to obtain 510(k) clearance; however, it may take longer, and 510(k) clearance may never be obtained. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain, clearances or approvals for any product enhancements or new products we develop would result in delayed, or no, realization of revenues from such product enhancements or new products and in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. 29Table of ContentsIn addition, we are required to continue to comply with applicable FDA and other regulatory requirements once we have obtained clearance or approval for a product. There can be no assurance that we will successfully maintain the clearances or approvals we have received or may receive in the future. Our clearances can be revoked if safety or effectiveness problems develop. Any failure to maintain compliance with FDA and applicable international regulatory requirements could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We will be subject to significant liability if we are found to have improperly promoted CoolSculpting for off-label uses. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about FDA-cleared products. In particular, a product may not generally be promoted for uses that are not cleared or approved by the FDA as reflected in the product's labeling. Our current FDA labeling only permits marketing CoolSculpting in the United States for use on the flanks and for the abdomen and restricts us from promoting it for use on other parts of the body. The FDA does not regulate the practice of medicine however, and, we are aware that CoolSculpting is used by our physician customers on other parts of the body. If we are found to have inappropriately promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion and entered agreements with several companies that require cumbersome reporting and oversight of sales and marketing practices. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. CoolSculpting may cause or contribute to adverse medical events that we are required to report to the FDA and if we fail to do so, we could be subject to sanctions that would materially harm our business.The adverse events that have been reported after receiving CoolSculpting treatments have been provided above. There may be other unexpected adverse events that are reported to us as use of CoolSculpting increases. We may need to update our labeling, or take other regulatory action, in response to adverse event reports. In addition, FDA regulations require that we report certain information about adverse medical events if our medical devices may have caused or contributed to those adverse events, or if our device has malfunctioned. The timing of our obligation to report is triggered by the date we become aware of the adverse event as well as the nature of the event. We may fail to report adverse events we become aware of within the prescribed timeframe. We may also fail to appreciate that we have become aware of a reportable adverse event, especially if it is not reported to us as an adverse event or if it is an adverse event that is unexpected or removed in time from the use of our products. To date, we filed Medical Device Reports when reporting requirements were met. If we fail to comply with our reporting obligations, the FDA could take action including criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties, revocation of our device clearance or approval, seizure of our products, or delay in approval or clearance of future products. We are currently, and in the future our contract manufacturers may be, subject to various governmental regulations related to the manufacturing of CoolSculpting, and we may incur significant expenses to comply with, experience delays in our product commercialization as a result of, and be subject to material sanctions if we or our contract manufacturers violate these regulations. Our manufacturing processes and facilities are required to comply with the FDA's Quality System Regulation, or the QSR, which covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, sterilization, storage, and shipping of our devices. Although we believe we are compliant with the QSRs, the FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced or unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. We have been, and anticipate in the future being, subject to such inspections, as well as to inspections by other federal and state regulatory agencies. Failure to comply with applicable FDA requirements, or later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes, including our failure or the failure of one of our third-party manufacturers to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection, can result in, among other things: •administrative or judicially-imposed sanctions; •injunctions or the imposition of civil penalties; •recall or seizure of our products; •total or partial suspension of production or distribution; •the FDA's refusal to grant pending future clearance or pre-market approval for our products; •withdrawal or suspension of marketing clearances or approvals; •clinical holds; •warning letters; •refusal to permit the import or export of our products; and •criminal prosecution of us or our employees. 30Table of ContentsAny of these actions, in combination or alone, could prevent us from marketing, distributing, or selling our products and would likely harm our business. We could have to issue a correction or removal to reduce a risk to health posed by our device or to remedy a violation which may present a risk to health. In addition, a product defect or regulatory violation could lead to a government-mandated or voluntary recall by us. The FDA could request that we initiate a voluntary recall if a product was defective or presented a risk of injury or gross deception. The FDA could order a recall if there is a reasonable probability that our product would cause serious adverse health consequences or death. Regulatory agencies in other countries have similar authority to recall devices because of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture that could endanger health. Any recall would divert management attention and financial resources, could cause the price of our shares of common stock to decline and expose us to product liability or other claims, including contractual claims from parties to whom we sold products and harm our reputation with customers. A recall involving our CoolSculpting System would be particularly harmful to our business and financial results and, even if we remedied a particular problem, would have a lasting negative effect on our reputation and demand for our products. Legislative or regulatory healthcare reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of our products and to produce, market, and distribute our products after clearance or approval is obtained. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory clearance or approval, manufacture, and marketing of regulated products or the reimbursement thereof. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. For example, in the future, the FDA may require more burdensome premarket approval of our procedures rather than the 510(k) clearance process we have used to date and anticipate primarily using in the future. Our CoolSculpting Platform is also subject to state regulations which are, in many instances, in flux. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of our products. We cannot determine what effect changes in regulations, statutes, legal interpretation or policies, when and if promulgated, enacted or adopted may have on our business in the future. Such changes could, among other things, require: •changes to manufacturing methods; •recall, replacement, or discontinuance of certain products;•additional record keeping; and,•additional warnings. Each of these would likely entail substantial time and cost and could materially harm our financial results. In addition, delays in receipt of or failure to receive regulatory clearances or approvals for our new products would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Federal and state governments in the United States are also undertaking efforts to control growing health care costs through legislation, regulation, and voluntary agreements with medical care providers, and third-party payers. In March 2010, Congress enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation known as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, or the PPACA. While the PPACA involves expanding coverage to more individuals, it includes new regulatory mandates and other measures designed to constrain medical costs. The PPACA also imposes significant new taxes on medical technology manufacturers that are expected to cost the medical technology industry up to $20 billion over the next decade. The PPACA imposes a 2.3% excise tax on sales of medical devices by manufacturers. There is no exemption for small companies, and we expect to begin paying the tax in 2013. We expect compliance with the PPACA to impose significant administrative and financial burdens on us, which may harm our results of operation. We may be subject to various federal and state laws pertaining to health care marketing and promotional practices and other business practices, and any violations by us of such laws could result in fines or other penalties. State and federal authorities have targeted medical technology companies for alleged violations of laws and regulations, based on off-label marketing schemes and other improper promotional practices. Companies targeted in such prosecutions have paid substantial fines in the hundreds of millions of dollars or more, have been forced to implement extensive corrective action plans, and have often become subject to consent decrees severely restricting the manner in which they conduct their business. If we become the target of such an investigation or prosecution based on our marketing and promotional practices, we could face similar sanctions which would materially harm our business. Also, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Some of our distribution partners are located in parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure 31Table of Contentsyou that our internal control policies and procedures will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees, distributors, partners, or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in fines, penalties, or prosecution and have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and reputation. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and must maintain licenses or permits, and non-compliance with these laws, regulations, licenses, or permits may expose us to significant costs or liabilities. We are subject to numerous foreign, federal, state, and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to, among other matters, safe working conditions and environmental protection, including those governing the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous materials. Some of these laws and regulations require us to obtain licenses or permits to conduct our operations. Environmental laws and regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations, licenses, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We cannot predict the impact on our business of new or amended laws or regulations or any changes in the way existing and future laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, nor can we ensure we will be able to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain, maintain, and enforce intellectual property protection covering our CoolSculpting System and any future products we develop, others may be able to make, use, or sell products substantially the same as ours, which could adversely affect our ability to compete in the market.Our commercial success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our intellectual property rights, including our patents and the patents we exclusively license. If we are unable to obtain, maintain, and enforce intellectual property protection covering our CoolSculpting System and any other products we develop, others may be able to make, use, or sell products that are substantially the same as ours without incurring the sizable development and licensing costs that we have incurred, which would adversely affect our ability to compete in the market. We seek to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property rights to restrict the ability of others to market products that compete with our products. As of December 31, 2012, our patent portfolio comprised 9 issued U.S. patents, 64 issued foreign counterpart patents, 20 pending U.S. patent applications, 86 pending foreign counterpart patent applications, and 2 pending patent applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, each of which we own solely or license exclusively. However, patents may not be issued on any pending or future patent applications we file and, moreover, issued patents owned or licensed to us now or in the future may be found by a court to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable. Also, even if our patents are determined by a court to be valid and enforceable, they may not drafted or interpreted sufficiently broadly to prevent others from marketing products and services similar to ours or designing around our patents, and they may not provide us with freedom to operate unimpeded by the patent rights of others. We have a number of foreign patents and applications, and expect to continue to pursue patent protection in the jurisdictions in which we do or intend to business. However, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in obtaining, protecting, and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we encounter such difficulties or we are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business prospects could be substantially harmed. The patent positions of medical technology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. No consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed in patents in these fields has emerged to date in the United States or in many foreign jurisdictions. Both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws of the United States are interpreted. Similarly, foreign courts have made, and will likely continue to make, changes in how the patent laws in their respective jurisdictions are interpreted. In addition, the U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation that would change provisions of the patent law. We cannot predict future changes U.S. and foreign courts may make in the interpretation of patent laws or changes to patent laws which might be enacted into law by U.S. and foreign legislative bodies. Those changes may materially affect our patents, our ability to obtain patents or the patents and applications of our collaborators and licensors. Future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example: •others may be able to make systems or devices that are similar to ours but that are not covered by the claims of our patents; 32Table of Contents•others may assert that our licensors or we were not the first to make the inventions covered by our issued patents or pending patent applications; •our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; •our issued patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be held invalid or unenforceable as a result of legal challenges by third parties; •the claims of our issued patents or patent applications when issued may not cover our CoolSculpting System or the future products we develop; •there may be dominating patents relevant to our controlled cooling technology of which we are not aware; •there may be prior public disclosures that could invalidate our inventions or parts of our inventions of which we are not aware; •the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States; and •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. From time to time, we analyze our competitors' products and services, and may in the future seek to enforce our patents or other rights to counter perceived infringement. However, infringement claims can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that the patent we seek to enforce is invalid or unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that the patent in question does not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Similarly, some of our competitors may be able to devote significantly more resources to intellectual property litigation, and may have significantly broader patent portfolios to assert against us if we assert our rights against them. Finally, because of the substantial discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be disclosed or otherwise compromised during this type of litigation. For example, in January 2013, the Mercantile Court in Spain rendered its ruling on the merits of Massachusetts General Hospital's, or MGH, and our request for a permanent injunction against Clinipro's LipoCryo device based on Clinipro's infringement of two European patents owned by MGH and globally licensed exclusively to us. While the Mercantile Court had earlier granted in 2012 MGH's and our request for a preliminary injunction, the Court, in a January ruling, denied the request for a permanent injunction. The Mercantile Court's ruling affects only Clinipro's activities in Spain and we have appealed the ruling.We rely on a license relationship with Massachusetts General Hospital for much of our core intellectual property, and this arrangement could restrict the scope and enforcement of our intellectual property rights and limit our ability to successfully commercialize our products. We have exclusively licensed certain intellectual property from the General Hospital Corporation, a not-for-profit Massachusetts Corporation, which owns and operates the Massachusetts General Hospital, or MGH, related to our CoolSculpting System. We rely on MGH to file and prosecute patent applications and maintain patents and otherwise protect the intellectual property we license. We have not had and do not have primary control over these activities for certain of our patents or patent applications and other intellectual property rights we license, and therefore cannot guarantee that these patents and applications will be prosecuted or immediately enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. We cannot be certain that such activities by third parties have been or will be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations or will result in valid and enforceable patents and other intellectual property rights. Additionally, we cannot control the publication or other disclosures of research carried out by MGH relating to technology that could otherwise prove patentable. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement with MGH, MGH has the right to control enforcement of our licensed patents or defense of any claims asserting the invalidity of these patents. Even if we are permitted to pursue such enforcement or defense, we will require the cooperation of MGH, and cannot guarantee that we would receive it. We cannot be certain that MGH will allocate sufficient resources or prioritize its or our enforcement of such patents or defense of such claims to protect our interests in the licensed patents. If we cannot obtain patent protection, or enforce existing or future patents against third parties, our competitive position and our financial condition could suffer. We are exploring additional uses of our proprietary controlled cooling technology platform for the dermatology, plastic surgery, and aesthetic markets. We also plan to explore potential therapeutic uses for our platform technology, either directly or through collaborative arrangements with strategic partners. Although MGH cannot restrict our future product development efforts, the terms of our license agreement with MGH may require us to pay MGH a royalty of up to 7% of net sales of future products we develop or that may be developed by our strategic partners. Whether we are required to pay a royalty will depend on whether our future products incorporate the intellectual property we licensed from MGH. Any royalty we are required to pay will reduce our income from sales of such future products and may make it more difficult for us to successfully commercialize these products directly or through a strategic partner. 33Table of ContentsIf we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. We rely on trade-secret protection to protect our interests in proprietary know-how and for processes for which patents are difficult or impossible to obtain or enforce. We may not be able to protect our trade secrets adequately. We have limited control over the protection of trade secrets used by our third-party manufacturers and suppliers. Although we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors and outside scientific advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Enforcing a claim that a third-party illegally obtained and is using any of our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes less willing to protect trade secrets. We rely, in part, on non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and other parties to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary technology. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach. Moreover, others may independently develop equivalent proprietary information, and third parties may otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge. We may now or in the future incorporate open source software in our products' firmware. Open source software licenses can be ambiguous, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed to require us to disclose or publish, in source code form, some or all of our proprietary firmware code. Any disclosure of confidential information into the public domain or to third parties could allow our competitors to learn our trade secrets and use the information in competition against us, which could adversely affect our competitive advantage. Our CoolSculpting System and any future products or services we develop could be alleged to infringe patent rights of others, which may require costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages or limit our ability to commercialize our products. Our commercial success depends on our ability to develop, manufacture, and market our CoolSculpting System and use our proprietary controlled cooling technology without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. As the medical technology and aesthetic product industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that there may be patents issued to third parties that relate to our products and technology of which we are not aware or that we must challenge to continue our operations as currently contemplated. Our products may infringe or may be alleged to infringe these patents. In addition, because patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until eighteen months after filing (or, in some cases, are not published until they issue as patents) and because publications in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that others have not filed patent applications for technology covered by our issued patents or our pending applications. Another party may have filed, and may in the future file, patent applications covering our products or technology similar to ours. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications or patents, which could further require us to obtain rights to issued patents covering such technologies. If another party has filed a U.S. patent application on inventions similar to ours, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, to determine priority of invention in the United States. The costs of these proceedings could be substantial, and it is possible that such efforts would be unsuccessful if the other party had independently arrived at the same or similar invention prior to our own invention, resulting in a loss of our U.S. patent position with respect to such inventions. There is substantial litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical technology and aesthetic industries generally. If a third party claims that we or any collaborator infringes its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: •infringement and other intellectual property claims which, regardless of merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management's attention from our core business; •substantial damages for infringement, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product at issue infringes on or violates the third party's rights, and if the court finds that the infringement was willful, we could be ordered to pay treble damages and the patent owner's attorneys' fees; •a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing our products unless the third party licenses its product rights to us, which it is not required to do at a commercially reasonable price or at all; •if a license is available from a third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, upfront fees or grant cross-licenses to intellectual property rights for our products; and •redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible at all or may require substantial monetary expenditures and time, during which our products may not be available for sale. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim 34Table of Contentsproceedings or developments and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Finally, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise the funds necessary to continue our operations. Our intellectual property rights will further be affected in ways that are difficult to anticipate by the provisions of the America Invents Act (2011).Enacted in September 2011, the America Invents Act, or AIA, is the first major overhaul of the U.S. patent system since 1952, and includes a number of changes to established practices. The most significant changes include the transition to a modified first-to-file system, the availability of new post-grant review for issued patents, various procedural changes including the third-party submission of prior art and the availability of derivation proceedings and supplemental examination, and an expanded prior commercial user rights defense to a claim of patent infringement. The scope of these changes and the lack of experience with their practical implementation, suggest a transitional period with some uncertainty over the next few years. For example, while some provisions have already taken effect, others will take effect up to 18 months from enactment. The USPTO is still in the process of publishing regulations concerning the implementation of the AIA. Several provisions of the AIA will likely be tested in U.S. federal courts over time. The changes to the U.S. patent system in the AIA will have an impact on our intellectual property rights and how business is conducted in general. For example, the modified first-to-file system places premium on filing as early as possible and appears to increase what is available as prior art, by changing the applicable definitions. In the future, in addition to patents and printed publications, we may be required to deal with unfamiliar prior art categories such as art that is “otherwise available to the public”. For patent applications filed on or after March 16, 2013, we may expect post-grant review challenges initiated up to nine months after the corresponding patent issues. While the AIA was intended to make the resolution of intellectual property disputes easier and less expensive, we may in the future have to prove that we are not infringing patents or we may be required to obtain licenses to such patents. However, we do not know whether such licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Prosecution of patent applications, post-grant opposition proceedings, and litigation to establish the validity and scope of patents, to assert patent infringement claims against others and to defend against patent infringement claims by others will be expensive and time-consuming. There can be no assurance that, in the event that claims of any of our owned or licensed patents are challenged by one or more third parties, any court or patent authority ruling on such challenge will determine that such patent claims are valid and enforceable. An adverse outcome in such litigation or post grant proceeding could cause us to lose exclusivity relating to the subject matter delineated by such patent claims and may have a material adverse effect on our business. If a third party is found to have rights covering products or processes used by us, we could be forced to cease using the products or processes covered by the disputed rights, be subject to significant liabilities to such third party and/or be required to license technologies from such third party.Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. Our stock price is volatile and from October 19, 2011, the first day of trading of our common stock, to March 6, 2013, our stock has had low and high sales prices in the range from $3.47 to $17.41 per share. Among the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate are the risks described in this “Risk Factors” section and other factors, including: •fluctuations in our operating results or the operating results of our competitors; •changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations or cessation of coverage by securities analysts; •changes in the estimates of the future size and growth rate of our market opportunity; •changes in accounting principles or changes in interpretations of existing principles, which could affect our financial results; •conditions and trends in the markets we serve; •changes in general economic, industry, and market conditions; •success of competitive technologies and procedures; •changes in our pricing policies; •announcements of significant new technologies, procedures, or acquisitions by us or our competitors; •changes in legislation or regulatory policies, practices or actions; •the commencement or outcome of litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; •recruitment or departure of our executives and other key employees; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; •actual or expected sales of our common stock by the holders of our common stock; and •the trading volume of our common stock. 35Table of ContentsIn addition, the stock market in general and the market for medical technology and aesthetic product companies in particular may experience a loss of investor confidence. The stock markets recently have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class-action litigation. Class-action litigation, such as the one described immediately below, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and divert management's attention and resources, which could further materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. We have been named in litigation that may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are defendants in several securities class action lawsuits. These lawsuits are described in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. Our attention may be diverted from our ordinary business operations by these lawsuits and we may incur significant expenses associated with the defense of these lawsuits (including substantial fees of lawyers and other professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers and directors who may be parties to such actions). Depending on the outcome of these lawsuits, we may be required to pay material damages, consent to injunctions on future conduct, or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. The ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and, consequently, negatively impact the trading price of our common stock.The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management's attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the securities exchange on which we trade and other applicable federal and state securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming, or costly and increased demand on our business systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. As a public company in the United States, we are required pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with these policies or procedures may deteriorate and weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered. In the event that we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 in a timely manner, or are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, we may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC and the securities exchange on which we trade and investors may lose confidence in our operating results, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and on the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. In addition, changing laws, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. These laws, regulations, and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations, and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations, and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. Our financial controls and procedures may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable reporting of financial information, which, as a public company, could materially harm our stock price and the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. As a public company, we require greater financial resources than we had as a private company. We cannot provide you with assurance that our finance department has or will maintain adequate resources to ensure that we will not have any future material weakness in our system of internal controls. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures may in the future be limited by a variety of factors, including: •faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions or mistakes; 36Table of Contents•fraudulent action of an individual or collusion of two or more people; •inappropriate management override of procedures; and •the possibility that any enhancements to controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and accurate financial control. If we fail to have effective controls and procedures for financial reporting in place, we could be unable to provide timely and accurate financial information and be subject to de-listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, Securities and Exchange Commission investigation, and civil or criminal sanctions. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. The payment of dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our results of operations, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, restrictions imposed by applicable law, any limitations on payments of dividends present in any debt agreements we may enter into and other factors our Board of Directors may deem relevant. If we do not pay dividends, your ability to achieve a return on our common stock will depend on any future appreciation in the market price of our common stock. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which our holders have purchased their common stock. Our directors, executive officers, and significant stockholders hold a substantial portion of our common stock, which may lead to conflicts of interest with other stockholders over corporate transactions and other corporate matters. Our directors, executive officers, and beneficial holders of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own a substantial portion of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of our other stockholders. We are not aware of any stockholder or voting agreements or understandings between or among our directors, officers, or holders of our outstanding common stock currently in place. However, these stockholders, acting together, would be able to influence significantly all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as mergers or other business combinations. This control could delay, deter, or prevent a third party from acquiring or merging with us, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current directors and management team, and limit the market price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock, and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: •dividing our board into three classes, with each class serving a staggered three-year term; •prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders or acting by written consent; •permitting our board to issue additional shares of our preferred stock, with such rights, preferences and privileges as they may designate, including the right to approve an acquisition or other changes in control; •establishing an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors; •providing that our directors may be removed only for cause; •providing that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and •requiring the approval of our Board of Directors or the holders of a super-majority of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management team by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding 37Table of Contentsvoting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The restrictions contained in Section 203 are not applicable to any of our existing stockholders that currently own 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. ITEM 1B.UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.