Item 1A. Risk Factors If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. We are a newly formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results to date. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing an initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning an initial business combination and may be unable to complete an initial business combination. If we expend all of the proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $1.8 million (net of income taxes on such interest) on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking an initial business combination, but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would be forced to liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, we will have 24 months from our final prospectus in which to complete an initial business combination. If we fail to consummate an initial business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will, in accordance with our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. The foregoing requirements are set forth in the Business Combination Articles in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and may not be amended except by approval of 66.66% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares voting at a meeting in which the holders of 100% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares must be present in order to constitute a quorum. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. We do not have any specific business combination under consideration, and neither we, nor any representative acting on our behalf, has had any contacts with any target businesses regarding an initial business combination, nor taken any direct or indirect actions to locate or search for a target business. If we are forced to liquidate before an initial business combination and distribute the trust account, our public shareholders may receive less than $10.04 per share, and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete an initial business combination within 24 months from the date of our final prospectus and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $10.04 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking an initial business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of an initial business combination. If the private placement was not conducted in compliance with applicable law, our sponsors may have the right to rescind their warrant purchases. Their rescission rights, if any, may require us to refund an aggregate of $4,380,000 to our sponsors, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate an initial business combination, or, in the event we do not complete an initial business combination within the period prescribed, the amount available to our public shareholders upon our liquidation. Although we believe that we have conducted the private placement in accordance with applicable law, there is a risk that the sponsors’ warrants should have been registered under the Securities Act 18 Table of Contents and applicable blue sky laws. Although our sponsors have waived their rights, if any, to rescind their warrant purchases as a remedy to our failure to register these securities, their waiver may not be enforceable in light of the public policy underlying Federal and state securities laws. If the sponsors bring a claim against us and successfully assert rescission rights, we may be required to refund an aggregate of $4,380,000 plus interest, to them, thereby reducing the amount in the trust account available to us to consummate an initial business combination, or, in the event we do not complete an initial business combination within the period prescribed, the amount available to our public shareholders upon our liquidation. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination, our public shareholders will be forced to wait the full 24 months before receiving liquidation distributions. We have 24 months in which to complete an initial business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate an initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought shareholder redemption of their shares, provided that, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking shareholder redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public shareholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete an initial business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. Our shareholders will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a ‘‘blank check’’ company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, and we had net tangible assets in excess of $5.0 million upon the consummation of our initial public offering and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies such as Rule 419 promulgated under the Securities Act. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Among other things, this means our units will be immediately tradable, and we will have a longer period of time to complete a busi ness combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate an initial business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. We have and expect to continue to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we intend to acquire. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, or greater access to capital, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we further believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation that we have to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction and make us less attractive to a potential target business. In addition, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution 19 Table of Contents they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Also, our obligation in certain instances to redeem our ordinary shares may reduce the resources available to us for a business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in trust are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months, we may be unable to complete an initial business combination. We believe that, until January 30, 2010, the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate for at least 24 months, assuming that an initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a ‘‘no-shop’’ provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from ‘‘shopping’’ around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed initial business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. Public shareholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking shareholder redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. When we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (but not our initial shareholders) the right to have his, her, or its ordinary shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the initial business combination and the initial business combination is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his, her or it or any other person with whom he, she or it is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking shareholder redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, if you purchase more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering, vote all of your shares against a proposed initial business combination and such proposed initial business combination is ap proved, you will not be able to seek shareholder redemption rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a initial business combination or that the market price of the ordinary shares will exceed the per-share conversion price. We may require shareholders who wish to redeem their shares to comply with specific requirements for shareholder redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their shareholder redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising shareholder redemption rights. We may require public shareholders who wish to redeem their shares to tender their certificates to our transfer agent prior to the shareholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using DTC’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical share certificate, a shareholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that shareholders should generally allow at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical share certificate. If it takes longer than anticipated to obtain a physical certificate, shareholders who wish to redeem may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their shareholder redemp tion rights, and thus will be unable to redeem their shares. 20 Table of Contents We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public shareholders owning 4,499,999 of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their shareholder redemption rights. This requirement may make it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over shareholder dissent. We may proceed with an initial business combination as long as public shareholders owning less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering both vote against the initial business combination and exercise their shareholder redemption rights, provided that a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his, her or it or any other person with whom he, she or it is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking shareholder redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, public shareholders holding up to 4,499,999 shares of our ordinary shares may both vote against the initial business combination and exercise their shareholder redemption rights and we could still consummate a proposed initial business combination. We have set the shareholder redemption percentage at 30% and limited the percentage of shares that a public shareholder, together with any of his, her or its affiliates or other persons with whom he, she or it is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, can redeem in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our ordinary shares will be able to stop us from completing an initial business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public shareholders. However, this may have the effect of making it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over a shareholder dissent. While there are several other offerings similar to ours that include conversion provisions greater than 20%, the 20% threshold has generally been common for offerings similar to ours. Because we permit a larger number of public shareholders to exercise their shareholder redemption rights and have limited the percentage of shar es that they, together with any of their affiliates or other persons with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, can redeem, it will make it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over shareholder dissent. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete an initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only $50,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes certain interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial shareholders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our initial shareholders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders may be less than approximately $10.04 per share (or approximately $10.01 per share if the underwriters’ over-allotment option is exercised in full). Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we have and will continue to seek to have all vendors (other than our independent accountants) we engage and prospective target businesses with which we negotiate, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising 21 Table of Contents out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming tortious interference as a result of our initial business combination. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public shareholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than approximately $10.04 due to claims of such creditors. If we liquidate before the completion of an initial business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public shareholders, John F. W. Hunt and Marc J. Blazer have agreed that they will be personally liable, by means of direct payment to the trust account, to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses, claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us or lenders for borrowed money. However, the agreement entered into by Messrs. Hunt and Blazer specifically provides there will be no liability as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a valid and enforceable waiver. Furthermore, there could be claims from parties other than vendors or target businesses that would not be covered by the indemnity from Messrs. Hunt and Blazer, such as shareholders and other claimants who are not parties in contract with us who file a claim for damages against us. The measures described above are the only actions we will take to ensure that the funds in the trust account are not depleted by claims against the trust. Because we will seek to have all vendors (other than our independent accountants) and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account, we believe the likelihood of Messrs. Hunt and Blazer having any such obligations is minimal. Based upon representations from Messrs. Hunt and Blazer as to their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act) and that they have sufficient funds available to them to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us, we believe they will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise. However, in the event Messrs. Hunt and Blazer have liability to us under these indemnification arrangements, we cannot assure you that they will have the assets necessary to satisfy those obligations. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account, if we liquidate, will not be less than approximately $10.04, plus interest, due to such claims. Additionally, if we are forced to declare insolvency or a petition to wind up the company is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account will be subject to applicable Cayman Islands insolvency law and may be included in our insolvent estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders at least $10.04 per share. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides that if after 24 months from the date of our final prospectus we have not consummated an initial business combination we will immediately go into a voluntary liquidation procedure under the Companies Law. The liquidator will give at least 21 days’ notice to creditors of his intention to make a distribution by notifying known creditors (if any) and by placing a public advertisement in the Cayman Islands Official Gazette and taking any other steps he considers appropriate, after which the assets of the company would be distributed. As soon as the affairs of the company are fully wound-up, the liquidator must present his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a public notice at least one month before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must make a return to the Cayman Islands Registrar of Companies confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing, the company will be dissolved. However, the liquidator will instruct the trustee to liquidate the trust account to our public shareholders as soon as reasonably possible after the end of the 21 days’ notice period referenced 22 Table of Contents above and our directors and officers have agreed to take any such action necessary to liquidate the trust account as soon as reasonably practicable if we do not complete an initial business combination within 24 months after the date of our final prospectus. As such, our shareholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them pursuant to such process and any liability of our shareholders may extend beyond the date of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to declare insolvency or a petition to wind up the company is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by shareholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or insolvency laws as either a preferential payment or a fraudulent transfer. As a result, a Cayman Islands court could seek to recover all amounts received by our shareholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public shareholders as described above, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public shareholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages, by paying public shareholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrant held by public shareholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless, at the time such holder seeks to exercise such warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants became exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their w arrants and we will not be required to settle any such warrant exercise, whether by net cash settlement or otherwise. If the prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current, the warrants held by public shareholders may have no value, we will have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash, the market for such warrants may be limited, such warrants may expire worthless and, as a result, an investor may have paid the full unit price solely for the ordinary shares included in the units. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of ordinary shares upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless the ordinary shares issuable upon such exercise have been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of warrants and for issuances of ordinary shares by the issuer upon exercise of a warrant may be different, a warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of ordinary shares upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the warrant. At the time that the warrants become exercisable (following our completion of an initial business combination), we expect to either continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state, or we would register the warrants in every state (or seek another exemption from registration in such states). Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the 23 Table of Contents warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants and they may expire worthless if the ordinary shares issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside. A public shareholder’s only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination will be limited to voting for or against the initial business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. At the time of an investment in us, public shareholders will not be provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Accordingly, the only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential initial business combination will be limited to voting for or against the initial business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. In addition, a proposal that a public shareholder votes against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote for the proposed initial business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that a public shareholder votes for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote against the proposed initial business combination. We may issue shares of our share capital or debt securities to complete an initial business combination. Issuance of our share capital would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership, while the issuance of debt securities may have a significant impact on our ability to utilize our available cash. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association authorizes the issuance of up to 100,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 preferred shares, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering and the purchase of the sponsors’ warrants (assuming no exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option and the redemption by the Company of 562,500 ordinary shares held by our initial shareholders), there were 61,870,000 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the sponsors’ warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 preferred shares available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this annual report, we may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary shares or preferred shares, or a combination of ordinary shares and pre ferred shares, to complete an initial business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or any number of our preferred shares: • may significantly reduce your equity interest in the Company; • may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if we issue preferred shares with rights senior to those afforded to our ordinary shares; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of our company; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; 24 Table of Contents • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as that holders of 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering vote against the initial business combination and opt to have us redeem their shares for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our shareholders approve the initial business combinati on. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Our ability to successfully effect an initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following an initial business combination. Our ability to successfully consummate an initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, including John F. W. Hunt, Lawton W. Fitt, Andrew H. Lufkin, Paul S. Pressler, Marc J. Blazer, Mark Booth and Domenico De Sole. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of Messrs. Hunt, Blazer, Pressler, Lufkin and Ms. Fitt, at least until we have consummated an initial business combination. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, Messrs. Hunt, Blazer, Pressler, Lufkin and Ms. Fitt are not required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential initial business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. Neither Messrs. Pressler and Lufkin nor Ms. Fitt is obligated to present to us any potential initial business combination. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the lives of, any of these individuals. The unexpected loss of the services of any of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. The role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following an initial business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after an initial business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following an initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of an initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in 25 Table of Contents connection with the initial business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the initial business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the company after the consummation of an initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. Our officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interest. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the amount of interest income from the trust account up to a maximum of $1.8 million that may be released to us as working capital. These amounts are based on management’s estimates of the funds needed to finance our operations for the next 24 months and to pay expenses in identifying and consummating our initial business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with our initial business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an initial business combination that is not consummated. Our officers and directors may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. We do not have a policy that prohibits our officers and directors from negotiating for the reimbursement of such expenses by a target business. If the owners of the target business do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers or directors could influence our officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of an initial business combination. All of our executive officers and certain directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. In addition, our directors have no obligation under Cayman Islands law to present business opportunities to the co mpany. See ‘‘Business — Conflicts of Interest.’’ Certain of our executive officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Certain of our executive officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. As of the date of this prospectus, John F. W. Hunt, our chairman, chief executive officer and secretary is affiliated with Oriel LLC and AmanyaraTM, a resort in Turks and Caicos. See ‘‘Business — Conflicts of Interest’’. Furthermore, each of our principals may become involved with subsequent blank check 26 Table of Contents companies similar to our company. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe contractual or other fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have fiduciary obligations and other conflicts of interest in determining to which entity time should be allocated or a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. We have entered into a business opportunity right of first review agreement with John F. W. Hunt and Marc J. Blazer, which provides that we will have a right of first review with respect to business combination opportunities of Messrs. Hunt and Blazer, and companies or other entities which they manage or control with an enterprise value of $120 million or more. Other than Messrs. Hunt and Blazer, our directors have not entered into a similar right of first review agreement. See ‘‘Business — Conflicts of interest.’’ Certain of our directors and entities affiliated with certain of our directors and executive officers, own ordinary shares issued prior to the offering and some of them own warrants purchased immediately prior to our initial public offering. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination. Certain of our directors and entities affiliated with certain of our directors and executive officers, own ordinary shares that were issued prior to our initial public offering in consideration for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000. Additionally, John F. W. Hunt, Lawton W. Fitt, Andrew H. Lufkin, Paul S. Pressler, Marc J. Blazer, Mark Booth and Domenico De Sole purchased an aggregate of 4,380,000 sponsors’ warrants, each at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant, immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering. Such purchasers waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the founders’ shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate an initial business combination. Accordingly, the founders’ shares as well as the sponsors’ warrants will be worthless if we do not consummate an initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence thei r motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing an initial business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. The American Stock Exchange may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities were approved for listing on the American Stock Exchange, a national securities exchange, upon consummation of our initial public offering. Although we expect to continue to meet the minimum initial listing standards set forth in Section 101(c) of the American Stock Exchange Company Guide, which only requires that we meet certain requirements relating to shareholders’ equity, market capitalization, aggregate market value of publicly held shares and distribution requirements, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the American Stock Exchange in the future prior to an initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the American Stock Exchange will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the American Stock Exchange delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our ordinary shares are a ‘‘penny stock’’ which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; 27 Table of Contents • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with a target business having a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several businesses or assets at the same time. However, we may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating an initial business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to an initial business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses or assets, which are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. We may seek to effect our initial business combination with on e or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us including the lack of available information about these companies. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about these companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their shareholder redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (but not our initial shareholders) the right to have his, her or its ordinary shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the initial business combination and the initial business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its shareholder redemption rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account, provided that, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for 28 Table of Contents the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking shareholder redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such shareholder redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such shareholder redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their shareholder redemption rights than we expect. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate an initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase pri ce, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete an initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate an initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combinati on, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate an initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after an initial business combination. Our initial shareholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Upon consummation of our initial public offering, our initial shareholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively owned approximately 20% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of an initial business combination, in which case all of our current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our ‘‘staggered’’ board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial shareholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outco me. Accordingly, our initial shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of an initial business combination. Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis will cause holders to receive fewer ordinary shares upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to exercise their warrants for cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described elsewhere in this annual report have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his, her or its warrant to do so on a ‘‘cashless basis.’’ In such event, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for that number of ordinary shares equal to 29 Table of Contents the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of ordinary shares underlying the warrants, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the ‘‘fair market value’’ and (y) the fair market value. The ‘‘fair market value’’ shall mean the average reported last sales price of our ordinary shares for the 10 trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of ordinary shares received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential ‘‘upside’’ of the holder’s investment in our company. We may redeem unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to warrant holders, thereby making the warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of the ordinary shares equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force warrant holders (i) to exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for them to do so, (ii) to sell their warrants at the then current market price when t hey might otherwise wish to hold their warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. None of the sponsors’ warrants will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by the sponsors or their permitted transferees. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. We have issued warrants to purchase 15,000,000 ordinary shares as part of the units sold in our initial public offering and the sponsors’ warrants to purchase 4,380,000 ordinary shares (an aggregate of 19,380,000 warrants). To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect an initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the initial business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on t he market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our initial shareholders or our sponsors or their permitted transferees exercise their registration rights with respect to the founders’ shares or sponsors’ warrants and underlying securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect an initial business combination. The initial shareholders or their permitted transferees are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the founders’ shares at any time generally commencing nine months after the consummation of our initial business combination. Additionally, our sponsors or their permitted transferees are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their sponsors’ warrants and underlying ordinary shares at any time after we consummate an initial business combination. We will bear the expenses in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 3,750,000 30 Table of Contents ordinary shares and 4,380,000 warrants (as well as 4,380,000 ordinary shares underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate an initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into an initial business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential negative effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our ordinary shares. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, investors may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and their ability to protect their rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and, following an initial business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located outside the United States, although our trust account will be located in the United States and be governed by laws of the United States. In addition, certain of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets may be located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against us or our directors or officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a court in the Cayman Islands or in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. It is doubtful the courts of the Cayman Islands will, in an original action in the Cayman Islands, recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state of the United States on the grounds that such provisions are penal in nature. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. 31 Table of Contents If we effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect an initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our executive officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or executive officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and executive officers under Federal securities laws. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete an initial business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we invest the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States ‘‘government securities’’ within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 which invests solely in government securities. By restricting the investmen t of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete an initial business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. 32 Table of Contents In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain other burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. If you acquire more than 10% of our ordinary shares, the controlled foreign corporation rules may apply to you. Each ‘‘United States shareholder’’ of a ‘‘controlled foreign corporation’’ (‘‘CFC’’) who owns ordinary shares in the CFC on the last day of the CFC’s taxable year must generally include in its gross income for United States federal income tax purposes its pro rata share of the CFC’s ‘‘subpart F income,’’ even if the subpart F income is not distributed. For these purposes, any U.S. person who owns, directly or indirectly through foreign persons, or is considered to own under applicable constructive ownership rules of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code (including by holding a security convertible into or exchangeable for ordinary shares), 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a foreign corporation will be considered to be a ‘‘United States shareholder.’’ In general, we will b e treated as a CFC only if such ‘‘United States shareholders’’ collectively own more than 50% of our total combined voting power or total value of our ordinary shares for an uninterrupted period of 30 days or more during the tax year. U.S. persons who might, directly or through attribution, acquire 10% or more of our shares should consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the CFC rules. Because we must furnish our shareholders with target business financial statements, we may not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. We will provide shareholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials sent to shareholders to assist them in assessing the target business. In all likelihood, these financial statements will need to be prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We cannot assure you that any particular target business identified by us as a potential acquisition candidate will have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles or that the potential target business will be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2008. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or shareholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs ne cessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and 33 Table of Contents reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares. We may become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands which would negatively affect our results. Under current Cayman Islands law, we are not obligated to pay any taxes in the Cayman Islands on either income or capital gains. The Governor-in-Cabinet of Cayman Islands has granted us an exemption from the imposition of any such tax on us for twenty years from October 9, 2007 until October 9, 2027. We cannot be assured that after such date we would not be subject to any such tax. If we were to become subject to taxation in the Cayman Islands, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly and negatively affected. If we are treated as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ it could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. If we are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, known as a ‘‘PFIC,’’ U.S. persons who hold our ordinary shares or warrants could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. Specifically, if we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year, each U.S. holder may be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. In general, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If a corporation would otherwise be a PFIC in its start-up year (defined as the first taxable year such corporation earns gross income), it is not treated as a PFIC in that taxable year, provided that: (i) no predecessor corporation was a PFIC; (ii) it is established to the Internal Revenue Service’s satisfaction that the corporation will not be a PFIC in either of the two succeeding taxable years; and (iii) the corporation is not, in fact, a PFIC for either succeeding taxable year. Although the determination of whether we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis, because the special rule for each start-up year depends on facts which will not b e known at the end of that year, we likely will not know until a later year whether we are a PFIC. Certain elections may sometimes be used to reduce the adverse impact of the PFIC rules. These elections may not be available to U.S. holders. If these elections are available, they may result in a current U.S. federal tax liability prior to any distribution or on the disposition of the ordinary shares, and without the assurance of a U.S. holder receiving an equivalent amount of income or gain from a distribution or disposition. We cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. Cayman Islands anti-money laundering laws might cause us to refuse a redemption payment to shareholders. We reserve the right to refuse to make any shareholder redemption payment to a shareholder if our directors or officers suspect or are advised that the payment of shareholder redemption proceeds to such shareholder might result in a breach of applicable anti-money laundering or other laws or regulations by any person in any relevant jurisdiction, or if such refusal is considered necessary or appropriate to ensure our compliance with any such laws or regulations in any applicable jurisdiction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 