ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks should be carefully considered because if any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Structure as a Development Stage Company We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have any operations or an operating history, our stockholders have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire one or more domestic or international operating businesses. We are currently in the process of evaluating and identifying prospective target businesses concerning a business combination, but may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues or income (other than income on the trust account) until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. Table of Contents We will liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we have until January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering) to consummate a business combination. If we have entered into a definitive agreement with respect to a business combination by January 23, 2010 and we anticipate that we may not be able to complete the business combination by such date, we may seek stockholder approval to extend the period of time to consummate a business combination by up to six months. In such case, we will present such proposal to our stockholders. The time period in which we must complete our business combination will not be extended unless (i) holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock approve the extension and (ii) conversion rights are exercised with respect to less than 40% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. If we fail to consummate a business combination within this time frame, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. We view this obligation to liquidate as an obligation to our stockholders and we presume that stockholders rely, at least in part, on this provision. Neither we nor our board of directors will take any action to amend or waive any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to allow us to survive beyond July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), except in connection with the consummation of a business combination or upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least 95% of our outstanding capital stock. If we are forced to liquidate, stockholders may not receive the full amount of their original investment. Unlike most other blank check companies, we will be permitted, pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, to seek to extend the date before which we must complete a business combination to up to 30 months. To the extent they acquire shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering and become public stockholders, Trian Partners, our sponsor and our officers and directors may be able to influence whether we extend our corporate existence. If an extension is approved, the funds in the trust account will not be released for up to two and a half years after our initial public offering. Unlike most other blank check companies, if we have entered into a definitive agreement by January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), we may seek to extend the date before which we must complete our business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, beyond January 23, 2010 to up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering) by calling a special (or annual) meeting of our stockholders for the purpose of soliciting their approval for such extension. We will only extend our corporate existence to up to July 23, 2010 if (i) holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation giving effect to such extension and (ii) holders of less than 40% of the shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering vote against the proposed extension and exercise their conversion rights as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In connection with the vote required for an extension of our corporate existence, our sponsor, our officers and directors and our other non-public stockholders have agreed, and their permitted transferees will agree, to vote the shares of common stock included in the sponsor units in accordance with the majority of votes cast by our public stockholders. We have also agreed that, prior to our business combination, we will not issue any shares of common stock, warrants or any other securities convertible into common stock or that vote as a class with our common stock in respect of any proposed extension or business combination. As a result of these agreements, a proposal to extend our corporate existence to up to July 23, 2010 may not be approved without the affirmative vote of a majority of votes cast by our public stockholders. In connection with any vote to extend our corporate existence to up to July 23, 2010, Trian Fund Management, L.P. has agreed to vote or cause to be voted all shares of common stock purchased in the open market pursuant to its purchase commitment in favor of an extension. In addition, our sponsor and our officers and directors may acquire shares in the open market or otherwise and may vote such shares in favor of an extension. As a result, to the extent they acquire shares issued in our initial public offering and become public stockholders, these persons may be able to influence whether we extend out corporate existence to up to July 23, 2010. Table of Contents Without the option of extending the date before which we must complete a business combination to up to July 23, 2010, if we enter into a definitive agreement near the end of the 24-month period ending on January 23, 2010, we may not have sufficient time to secure the approval of our stockholders and satisfy customary closing conditions. If the proposal for the extension to up to July 23, 2010 is approved by our stockholders as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we will have up to an additional six months beyond January 23, 2010 to complete our business combination. As a result, we may be able to hold public stockholder funds in the trust account until July 23, 2010 and thus delay the receipt by public stockholders of funds from the trust account on liquidation. Although historically blank check companies have used a 20% threshold for conversion rights, we have used a 40% threshold. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination, or extend the time period within which we must complete our business combination, with which our public stockholders may not agree, and public stockholders may not receive the full amount of their original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. We will proceed with our business combination only if a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination and public stockholders owning less than 40% of the shares included in the units sold in our initial public offering cumulatively vote against the business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must consummate our business combination and exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, public stockholders holding approximately 39.99% of the shares included in the units sold in our initial public offering may vote against the business combination, or the extension of time, and exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. Historically, blank check companies have had a conversion threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of stockholders to vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights, it may be easier for us to consummate a business combination with a target business that public stockholders may believe is not suitable for us, and public stockholders may not receive the full amount of their original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. The ability of a larger number of our stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to consummate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of a business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must complete our business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our sponsor, our other non-public stockholders or their permitted transferees with respect to the common stock included in the sponsor units) the right to have its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination or extension and the business combination is approved and consummated or the extension is approved. Such holder must both vote against such business combination or extension and then exercise its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. In the event that the business combination involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at higher than desirable levels. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. Table of Contents Public stockholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting as a “group,” will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares of common stock included in the units sold in our initial public offering. When we seek stockholder approval of a proposed business combination or extension of the time period within which we must complete our business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our sponsor, our officers and directors, our other non-public stockholders or their permitted transferees with respect to the common stock included in the sponsor units) the right to have its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against a business combination or the extension and the business combination is approved and consummated or the extension is approved. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public stockholder, together with any affiliate or any other person with whom it is acting as a “group” (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares of common stock included in the units sold in our initial public offering, on a cumulative basis, which includes any exercise of conversion rights in connection with either the stockholder vote, if any, required to approve an extension of the time period within which we must complete our business combination or the stockholder vote required to approve our business combination. Shares of common stock converted in connection with the vote on the extension and in connection with the vote on our business combination will be aggregated for purposes of this 10% limit. Accordingly, if a stockholder purchased more than 10% of the shares of common stock included in the units sold in our initial public offering and a proposed business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must complete our business combination is approved, such stockholder will not be able to seek conversion rights with respect to the full amount of its shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a business combination or that the market price of the common stock will exceed the per-share conversion price. We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising conversion rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to physically tender their stock certificates to our transfer agent prior to the stockholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. We may impose such a requirement in order to provide a clear deadline and greater certainty as to the number of shares that will be subject to conversion following our business combination, as well as for administrative ease. The proxy solicitation materials that we will furnish to stockholders in connection with the vote for any proposed business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must complete our business combination will indicate whether we are requiring stockholders to satisfy such a delivery requirement, in which case, a stockholder would have from the time we send out our proxy statement through the vote on the business combination or extension to deliver his shares if he wishes to exercise his conversion rights. If applicable, this time period will vary depending on the specific facts of each transaction. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short period of time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, it may take longer. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for stockholders to deliver their shares, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to convert their shares. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may be amended other than in connection with the consummation of a business combination. We view the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be obligations to our stockholders and we presume that stockholders rely, at least in part, on these provisions. Although we are contractually obligated, pursuant to the underwriting agreement entered into with the underwriters in connection with our initial public offering, not to amend or waive these provisions without the affirmative vote of holders of at least 95% of our outstanding shares of common stock prior to our business combination, this supermajority requirement may not be enforceable under Delaware law in which case these provisions may be amended or waived by a vote of fewer than 95% of such shares. Table of Contents If we are forced to liquidate before the consummation of a business combination and distribute the amounts in the trust account, our public stockholders may receive significantly less than the per-share liquidation price of approximately $9.90 as of December 31, 2008 and our warrants will expire worthless. We have until January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, to consummate a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within this time frame and are forced to liquidate the trust account, the per-share liquidation price received by our public stockholders from the trust account may be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination. Upon the liquidation of the trust account, public stockholders would be entitled to receive (unless there are claims not otherwise satisfied by the amount not held in the trust account or the indemnification provided by Trian Fund Management, L.P.) approximately $9.90 per share as of December 31, 2008 (including the income earned through such date on the proceeds in the trust account in excess of the amount permitted to be disbursed to us for working capital purposes, net of taxes payable on such income and trust account expenses incurred through such date), which includes approximately $29.8 million of the underwriters’ deferred discount and the $10 million purchase price of the sponsor warrants. In addition, if we do not have sufficient funds to pay the costs of liquidation from our remaining assets outside of the trust account, we may request from the trustee up to $75,000 of income earned on the trust account to pay for liquidation costs and expenses. In the event that we liquidate and it is subsequently determined that the reserve for claims and liabilities is insufficient, stockholders who received a return of funds from the liquidation of our trust account could be liable for claims made by our creditors. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants, which will expire worthless if we liquidate the trust account in the event we do not consummate a business combination within the prescribed time frame. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the trust account could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders from the trust account as part of our plan of distribution could be less than the per-share liquidation price of approximately $9.90 as of December 31, 2008. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Third-party claims may include contingent or conditional claims and claims of directors and officers entitled to indemnification under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or under indemnity agreements. We intend to pay any claims from our funds not held in trust to the extent sufficient to do so. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers and prospective target businesses or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Even if they execute such agreements, they could bring claims against the trust account including but not limited to fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the trust account. If any third party refused to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the trust account, we would perform an analysis of the alternatives available to us if we chose not to engage such third party and evaluate if such engagement would be in the best interest of our stockholders. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refused to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where management is unable to find a provider of required services willing to provide the waiver. Table of Contents Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that could take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and the per-share liquidation price could be less than the per-share liquidation price of approximately $9.90 as of December 31, 2008, due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to consummate a business combination and we liquidate, Trian Fund Management, L.P. will be liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced if we did not obtain a waiver from vendors, service providers, or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, as well as from any prospective target businesses for fees and expenses of third parties that we agree in writing to pay in the event we do not consummate a combination with such target business. We cannot assure you that Trian Fund Management, L.P., which is a privately held limited partnership without publicly disclosed financial statements, will have sufficient assets to satisfy those obligations. The indemnification provisions are set forth in a letter executed by Trian Fund Management, L.P. The letter specifically sets forth that in the event we obtain a waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our stockholders from a vendor, service provider, prospective target business or other entity that is owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, the indemnification from Trian Fund Management, L.P. will not be available, even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid and unenforceable. The indemnification from Trian Fund Management, L.P. will also be unavailable in respect of any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters against certain liabilities related to our initial public offering or in respect of any claims under the indemnification provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or the indemnity agreements we have entered into with our officers and directors (although Trian Fund Management, L.P. has separately guaranteed certain of our obligations under such indemnity agreements with our officers and directors prior to our business combination). In addition, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account we may not be able to return to our public stockholders the liquidation amounts due them. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if our stockholders approve an extension. If we have not consummated a business combination within such time frame and amended this provision in connection therewith, pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. Under Section 282 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. If the corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the Delaware General Corporation Law intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to make liquidating distributions to our stockholders as soon as reasonably possible after our corporate existence terminates and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with those procedures. Because we will not be complying with those procedures, we are required, pursuant to Section 281 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, to adopt a plan that will provide for our payment, based on facts known to us at such time, of (i) all existing claims, (ii) all pending claims and (iii) all claims that may be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any claims of creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent 10 years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust to stockholders. We may not be able to properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of such date. Accordingly, third parties may seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. In the event of our liquidation, we may have to adopt a plan to provide for the payment of claims that may potentially be brought against us, which could result in the per-share liquidation amount to our stockholders being significantly less than the per-share liquidation price of approximately $9.90 as of December 31, 2008. Table of Contents Our public stockholders will not have any rights or interest in funds from the trust account, except under certain limited circumstances. Our public stockholders will be entitled to receive funds from the trust account only in the event of our liquidation or if they seek to convert their respective shares of common stock into cash in connection with a business combination that the stockholder voted against and that is consummated by us or in connection with an extension of the time period within which we must consummate our business transaction that the stockholder voted against and that is approved. In no other circumstances will a stockholder have any right or interest of any kind in the trust account. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to consummate a business combination. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to consummate a business combination, including: · restrictions on the nature of our investments; · restrictions on borrowing; and · restrictions on the issuance of securities, including warrants. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: · registration as an investment company; · adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and · reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trust agent only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act with a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act. By restricting the holdings of the trust account to these instruments, we believe that we will not be deemed an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act. The trust account and the purchase of government securities and money market funds for the trust account is intended as a holding place for funds pending the earlier to occur of either: (i) the consummation of our primary business objective, which is a business combination, or (ii) absent a business combination, liquidation and return of the funds held in this trust account to our public stockholders. If we are deemed to be an investment company at any time, we will be required to comply with additional regulatory requirements under the Investment Company Act that would require additional expenses for which we have not budgeted. Furthermore, if we are deemed to be an investment company, our contracts may be voided and we may be unable to consummate a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait the full 24 months (or up to 30 months if our stockholders approve an extension) before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if our stockholders approve an extension, to consummate a business combination. We have no obligation to return funds to stockholders prior to such date (other than pursuant to conversion rights in connection with an extension) unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where stockholders have properly sought conversion of their shares. Only after the expiration of this 24-month period ending January 23, 2010 (or up to 30-month period ending July 23, 2010, if our stockholders approve an extension) will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Table of Contents Stockholders will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to stockholders of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to consummate a business combination with an unidentified target business, we may be deemed to be a blank check company under the United States securities laws. However, since we had net tangible assets in excess of $5 million upon the consummation of our initial public offering and filed a current report on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 4, 2008, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission to protect stockholders of blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules, such as entitlement to all the income earned on the funds deposited in the trust account. Because we are not subject to these rules, including Rule 419, we have a longer period of time to consummate a business combination in certain circumstances than we would if we were subject to such rule. Risks Relating to Our Business Combination The requirement that we consummate a business combination by January 23, 2010 (or up to July 23, 2010, if our stockholders approve an extension) may give potential target businesses leverage over us in negotiating a business combination. We will liquidate and promptly distribute only to our public stockholders on a pro rata basis the net amount in our trust account (subject to our obligations under Delaware law for claims of creditors) plus any remaining net assets if we do not effect a business combination by January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if our stockholders approve an extension. Any potential target business with which we enter into negotiations concerning a business combination will be aware of this requirement. Consequently, such target businesses may obtain leverage over us in negotiating a business combination, knowing that if we do not consummate a business combination with that particular target business, we may be unable to consummate a business combination with any target business. This risk will increase as we get closer to the time limit referenced above. We may issue shares of our capital stock to consummate a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering, there were 260,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares of common stock upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to consummate a business combination. In addition, we may issue common stock as part of the co-investment units and upon the exercise of warrants included in the co-investment units described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: · may significantly reduce the equity interest of our stockholders; · may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded to the holders of our common stock; · may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors and cause our public stockholders to become minority stockholders in the combined entity; and · may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. For a more complete discussion of the possible structure of a business combination, see “Item 1. Business—Effecting our Business Combination—General.” Table of Contents We may not be able to consummate a business combination in the current economic environment. The U.S. and global economies are currently experiencing a severe financial crisis and the U.S. equity markets have declined substantially in recent months. The downturn in the equity markets, particularly the markets for initial public offerings, could adversely impact our ability to consummate a business combination. Potential targets may not be willing to sell their businesses at current depressed equity valuations. In addition, public stockholders will have the ability to make a new investment decision whether to approve the transaction and become owners of an operating company, or to receive their pro rata portion of the funds in the trust account. To the extent potential targets are unwilling to sell to us, or public stockholders are unwilling to invest in a new public operating company, or continue to invest in the equity markets generally, our ability to consummate a business combination could be hindered. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to consummate a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, the private placement of sponsor warrants and, if applicable, the Trian Fund Management, L.P. purchase commitment will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering, the private placement and, if applicable, the Trian Fund Management, L.P. purchase commitment prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares of our common stock from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing such as debt, equity or co-investment with other investors. Given the current global economic crisis, such additional financing might not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. If we are unable to secure additional financing, and, as a result, we fail to consummate a business combination in the allotted time, we would liquidate the trust account, which may result in a loss of a portion of our public stockholders’ investment. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund continuing operations and/or growth. The failure to secure any such additional financing following a business combination could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop and grow. Other than the Trian Fund Management, L.P. purchase commitment, none of our officers or directors, our sponsor or any of their affiliates or any other third party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after the consummation of a business combination. Our investments in any future joint investment could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a partner’s financial condition and disputes between us and our partners. While we will not structure our business combination in such a way that we will not acquire a controlling interest in a target company (whether through the acquisition of a majority of the voting equity interests of the target or through other means), we may in the future co-invest with third parties through partnerships or joint investment in an acquisition target or other entities. In such circumstances, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding a target business, partnership or other entity. Investments in partnerships or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners might become insolvent or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such partners may also seek similar acquisition targets as us and we may be in competition with them for such business combination targets. Disputes between us and partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and distract our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners might result in subjecting assets owned by the partnership to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners. For example, in the future we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership or other entity. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation. Table of Contents If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not placed in trust together with income earned on the trust account available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least January 23, 2010 (or up to July 23, 2010, if our stockholders approve an extension), we may not be able to consummate a business combination. We currently believe that the remaining portion of the sum of the $500,000 in funds available to us outside of the trust account plus the $9.5 million of income earned on the trust account that may be disbursed to us, which remaining portion equals $8.0 million as of December 31, 2008, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if our stockholders approve an extension, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, our estimates may not be accurate. We will depend on sufficient income being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with up to $9.5 million of additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses and to consummate our business combination, as well as to pay any taxes that we may owe. The current low level of interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close our business combination. In such event, we would need to raise additional funds to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Neither our sponsor nor any member of our management team is under any obligation to loan us money under such circumstances. We could use a portion of the funds not being placed in trust or that may be released to us from the trust to pay due diligence costs in connection with a potential business combination or to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of these funds as a down payment, “reverse break-up fee” (a payment to the target company under a merger agreement if the financing for an acquisition is not obtained), or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with others on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into such a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from an acquisition target and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or for other reasons) or if we agree to a reverse break-up fee and subsequently were required to pay such fee (whether as a result of failure to obtain the necessary financing or for other reasons), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to any other potential acquisition targets. In such event, we would need to obtain additional funds to continue operations. Neither our sponsor nor our management team is under any obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities, including numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours, it may be more difficult for us to consummate a business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local industry knowledge, or greater access to capital, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target businesses that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target businesses that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation that we have to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction and make us less attractive to a potential target business. In addition, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Also, our obligation in certain instances to convert into cash shares of our common stock may reduce the resources available to us for a business combination. Any of these factors may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Table of Contents Since we have not yet selected any target business with which to consummate a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’s operations and stockholders will be relying on management’s ability to source and evaluate potential business combinations. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target business, stockholders currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of our business combination. Although our management and board of directors will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, they may not properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Except for the limitation that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets held in trust (net of taxes and amounts permitted to be disbursed to us for working capital purposes and excluding the amount of the underwriters’ deferred discount held in trust) at the time of such business combination, we have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective acquisition candidate. Public stockholders will be relying on the ability of our officers and directors to source business combinations, evaluate their merits, conduct or monitor diligence and conduct negotiations. We may have only limited ability to evaluate the management of the target business. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various operational issues that may adversely affect our operations. Since we may acquire a business that has operations outside the United States, we may encounter risks specific to one or more countries in which we ultimately operate. If we acquire a business that has operations outside the United States, we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following a business combination. The additional risks to which we may be exposed in any such case include but are not limited to: · tariffs and trade barriers; · regulations related to customs and import/export matters; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · cultural and language differences; · an inadequate banking system; · foreign exchange controls; · restrictions on the repatriation of profits or payment of dividends; · crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; · nationalization or expropriation of property; · law enforcement authorities and courts that are inexperienced in commercial matters; and · deterioration of political relations with the United States. In addition, if we acquire a business that conducts a substantial portion of its business in emerging economies, we could face additional risks, including the following: · the challenge of navigating a complex set of licensing requirements and restrictions affecting the conduct of business in such countries by foreign companies; · difficulties and limitations on the repatriation of cash; · currency fluctuation and exchange rate risks; Table of Contents · protection of intellectual property, both for us and our customers; and · difficulty retaining management personnel and skilled employees. If we are unable to manage these risks following a business combination, we may face significant liability, our international sales could decline and our financial results could be adversely affected. Foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our business and financial results. A target business with which we combine may do business and generate sales within other countries. Foreign currency fluctuations may affect the costs that we incur in such international operations. It is also possible that some or all of our operation expenses may be incurred in non-U.S. dollar currencies. The appreciation of non-U.S. dollar currencies in those countries where we have operations against the U.S. dollar would increase our costs and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Because any target business with which we attempt to consummate a business combination will be required to provide our stockholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with certain requirements set out by U.S. federal securities laws, the pool of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with the requirements of U.S. federal securities laws, in order to seek stockholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements that are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) or in accordance with another comprehensive basis of accounting reconciled to U.S. GAAP, and that are audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). To the extent that a proposed target business does not have and cannot prepare financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with IFRS or U.S. GAAP, or that can be reconciled to U.S. GAAP, and that are audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and other advisors. If a decision is made not to consummate a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons, including those beyond our control, such as public stockholders who own 40% or more of the shares of common stock issued in our initial public offering voting against the proposed business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must consummate our business combination and opting to have us redeem their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account, even if a majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders are voted in favor of the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Table of Contents Initially, we may only be able to consummate one business combination, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single asset or property. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the private placement of sponsor warrants (excluding the underwriters’ deferred discount of approximately $29.8 million held in trust) provided us with approximately $875.8 million, which is held in trust and may be used by us to consummate a business combination. We currently have no restrictions on our ability to seek additional funds through the sale of securities or through loans. As a consequence, we could seek to acquire a target business that has a fair market value significantly in excess of 80% of our net assets held in trust (net of taxes and amounts permitted to be disbursed for working capital purposes and excluding the amount of the underwriters’ deferred discount held in trust) at the time of such business combination. We could seek to fund such a business combination by raising additional funds through the sale of our securities or through loan arrangements. However, if we were to seek such additional funds, any such arrangement would only be consummated simultaneously with our consummation of a business combination. Consequently, it is probable that we will have the ability to consummate only a single business combination, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or closely related operating businesses. However, should our management elect to pursue more than one acquisition simultaneously, our management could encounter difficulties in consummating all or a portion of such acquisitions due to a lack of adequate resources, including the inability of management to devote sufficient time to the due diligence, negotiation and documentation of each acquisition. Furthermore, even if we consummate the acquisition of more than one target business at substantially the same time, we may not be able to integrate the operations of such target businesses. Accordingly, the prospects for our ability to effect our business strategy may be: · solely dependent upon the performance of a single business; or · dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. In this case, we will not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities that may have the resources to consummate several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Furthermore, since our business combination may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several assets or operating businesses at the same time and may be with different sellers, we will need to convince such sellers to agree that the purchase of their assets or businesses is contingent upon the simultaneous closings of the other acquisitions. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target business or businesses or that the price we are paying for such business or businesses is fair to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the target business or businesses we select have a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets held in trust (net of taxes and amounts permitted to be disbursed to us for working capital purposes and excluding the amount of the underwriters’ deferred discount held in trust) at the time of our business combination, unless our board is not able to independently determine that the target business or businesses have a sufficient fair market value. We are also not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the price we are paying for the target business or businesses we select is fair to our stockholders. Firms providing fairness opinions typically place limitations on the purposes for which the opinion may be used, and there can be no assurance that, as a result of such limitations or applicable law, our stockholders, in addition to our board of directors, will be entitled to rely on any opinion that may be obtained. We expect to require that any firm selected by us to provide a fairness opinion will adhere to general industry practice in stating the purposes for which its opinion may be used. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors. There may be tax consequences associated with our acquisition, holding and disposition of target companies and assets. We may incur significant taxes in connection with effecting acquisitions; holding, receiving payments from, and operating target companies and assets; and disposing of target companies and assets. Table of Contents The potential loss of key customers, management and employees of a target business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. It is possible that, following our business combination, the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. Certain regulatory requirements may increase the time and costs of consummating an acquisition. If we were to acquire a previously privately owned company, it most likely will incur additional costs in order to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other public company requirements, which in turn would reduce our earnings. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited on an annual basis. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any business combination. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to consummate a business combination, which may adversely affect our financial condition. Although we currently have no commitments to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to consummate a business combination. The incurrence of debt could result in: · default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; · acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due, if the debt contained covenants that required the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant were breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; · our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt was payable on demand; · covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, acquire capital assets or make additional acquisitions; and · our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt contained covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such debt was outstanding. Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Securities Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase up to 92,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units sold in our initial public offering. In addition, immediately prior to the closing of our initial public offering, we issued and sold 10,000,000 warrants to our sponsor in exchange for $10 million, which was deposited in our trust account, and in October 2007, we issued 23,000,000 warrants (after giving effect to an adjustment in connection with a stock dividend) to our sponsor as part of the sponsor units. We may also issue additional warrants as part of the co-investment units Trian Fund Management, L.P. purchases or causes to be purchased immediately prior to our business combination to the extent Trian Fund Management, L.P. has not purchased or caused to be purchased the full $75 million of our common stock pursuant to its purchase commitment described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. To the extent we issue shares of common stock to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of common stock upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares of common stock issued to consummate the business combination. Therefore, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. In addition, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, stockholders may experience dilution to their holdings. If we redeem the warrants included in the units offered to the public, the sponsor warrants and the warrants included in the sponsor units, which are non-redeemable so long as they are held by the sponsor or its permitted transferees, could provide the sponsor and its permitted transferees with the ability to realize a larger gain than the public warrant holders. The warrants held by our public warrant holders may be called for redemption at any time after the warrants become exercisable: · in whole and not in part; · at a price of $0.01 per warrant; · upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption to each warrant holder; and · if, and only if, the last sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $13.75 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to the notice of redemption to warrant holders. In addition, we may not redeem such warrants unless the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of those warrants are covered by an effective registration statement from the beginning of the measurement period through the date fixed for the redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders to (i) exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) accept the nominal redemption price, which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. As a result of the sponsor warrants and the warrants included in the sponsor units not being subject to redemption so long as they are held by the sponsor or its permitted transferees, holders of such warrants could realize a larger gain than our public warrant holders in the event we redeem our public warrants. Table of Contents Our management’s ability to require holders of our public warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis, if exercised, would cause holders to receive fewer shares of common stock upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to exercise their warrants for cash. If we call our public warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described above have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise his warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of shares of common stock received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company. A market for our securities may not develop or be sustained, which would adversely affect the liquidity and price of our securities. Although our securities are listed on the NYSE Alternext US (formerly the American Stock Exchange), a national securities exchange, an active trading market for our securities may never develop or, if developed, it may not be sustained. Stockholders may be unable to sell their securities unless a market can be established or sustained. The NYSE Alternext US may de-list our securities from quotation on its exchange, which could limit a stockholder’s ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the NYSE Alternext US, a national securities exchange. However, our securities may not continue to be listed on the NYSE Alternext US in the future. In addition, in connection with a business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Alternext US may require us to file a new listing application and meet its initial listing requirements, as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We may not be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NYSE Alternext US de-lists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: · a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; · a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which would require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; · a more limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; · a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future; and · a decreased ability of our security holders to sell their securities in certain states. Table of Contents An effective registration statement may not be in place when a holder desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such a holder from being able to exercise its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. Holders of our warrants will be able to exercise the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares of common stock are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our reasonable efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we may not be able to do so and therefore the warrants could expire worthless. Such expiration would result in each holder paying the full unit purchase price solely for the shares of common stock included in the units. In addition, we have agreed to use our reasonable efforts to register the issuance of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the blue sky laws of the states of residence of the existing warrant holders, to the extent an exemption is not available. The value of the warrants may be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the issuance of the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. In no event will the registered holders of a warrant be entitled to receive a net cash settlement, stock, or other consideration in lieu of physical settlement in shares of our common stock. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Certain warrant holders are unlikely to receive direct notice of redemption of our warrants. We expect most warrant holders hold their securities through one or more intermediaries and consequently warrant holders are unlikely to receive notice directly from us that the warrants are being redeemed. If a warrant holder fails to receive notice of redemption from a third party and its warrants are redeemed for nominal value, such warrant holder will not have recourse against us. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. The provisions include, among others: · provisions establishing a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; · provisions relating to the number and election of directors, the appointment of directors upon an increase in the number of directors or vacancy and provisions permitting the removal of directors only for cause and with a 66 2/3% stockholder vote; · provisions requiring a 66 2/3% stockholder vote for the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and for the adoption, amendment and repeal of our by-laws; · provisions barring stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders or requiring one to be called; · elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; and · provisions prescribing advance notice procedures for stockholders’ nominations of directors and proposals for consideration at meetings of stockholders. Table of Contents Moreover, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock. Together, these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law may make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage potential takeover attempts that could otherwise involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities and reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future, which could reduce the market price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Officers and Directors and Our Sponsor Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our officers and directors, some or all of whom may not continue with us up until or following a business combination. None of our current key personnel, including our officers, will have entered into employment or consulting agreements with us prior to our business combination. Accordingly, such key personnel may not continue in their positions with us until we have identified and consummated our initial business combination. Further, although we presently anticipate that our officers will remain associated in senior management, advisory or other positions with us following a business combination, some or all of the management associated with a target business may also remain in place. In making the determination as to whether current management of the target business should remain with us following the business combination, we will analyze the experience and skill set of the target business’s management and negotiate as part of the business combination that our initial officers and directors remain if it is believed that it is in the best interests of the combined company after the consummation of the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, our assessment of these individuals may not prove to be correct. Our key personnel may not continue to provide services to us after the consummation of a business combination if we are unable to negotiate employment or consulting agreements with them in connection with or subsequent to the business combination, the terms of which would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. In addition, it is possible that certain key employees of a target business may not remain with the surviving company and may need to be replaced by our officers or other management personnel recruited by us. We may be unable to successfully fill these positions, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time among various business activities. Such conflicts of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. While we expect that our current officers and directors will devote a portion of their time to our business, our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our current officers and directors are currently employed by other entities and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If other entities require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to their business and affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor. Table of Contents We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our officers or directors or our sponsor, which may raise potential conflicts. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships or are affiliated with our officers or directors or our sponsor, which may raise potential conflicts. We are unable to predict whether, when or under what circumstances we would pursue or enter into any such business combination. Also, the consummation of a business combination between us and an entity owned by a business in which our officers or directors or our sponsor may have an interest could present a conflict of interest. Our sponsor and our officers and directors currently own shares of our common stock that will not participate in the liquidation of the trust account and a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Our sponsor, our officers and directors and our other non-public stockholders own shares of common stock that were issued prior to our initial public offering, but they have waived their right to participate in any liquidation distribution with respect to those shares of common stock if we are unable to consummate a business combination. In addition, our sponsor purchased 10,000,000 warrants directly from us in a private placement immediately prior to the consummation of our initial public offering at a purchase price of $1.00 per warrant for a total purchase price of $10 million. The shares of common stock acquired prior to our initial public offering and any warrants owned by our sponsor will expire worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and consummating a business combination. Consequently, the discretion of our officers and directors in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest and as a result of such conflicts management may choose a target business that is not in the best interests of our public stockholders. Our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have a pecuniary interest in certain transactions in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. Nor do we have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such parties may have an interest in certain transactions such as strategic partnerships or joint ventures in which we are involved, and may also compete with us. However, we have adopted a policy that, prior to the consummation of a business combination, none of our existing officers or directors or our sponsor, or any entity with which they are affiliated, will be paid, either by us or a target company, any finder’s fee, consulting fee or other compensation for any services they render in order to effectuate the consummation of a business combination, other than (i) the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses, (ii) the monthly administrative services fee of $10,000 payable to Trian Fund Management, L.P. and (iii) by virtue of their ownership of sponsor units, sponsor warrants, securities purchased in the after market or any securities included in or issuable upon exercise of such securities. In the course of their other business activities, our officers and directors may become aware of investment and business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to our company as well as the other entities with which they are affiliated. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. None of our officers or directors have been or currently are a principal of, or affiliated or associated with, a blank check company. However, our officers and directors may in the future become affiliated with additional entities, including other blank check companies, which may be engaged in activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. In addition, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities that may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties or other contractual obligations. Accordingly, our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Table of Contents In order to minimize potential conflicts of interest that may arise from multiple affiliations, each of our officers and directors (other than our independent directors) has agreed, until the earliest of the consummation of our business combination, January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if our stockholders approve an extension, and such time as he ceases to be an officer or director, to present to our company for our consideration, prior to presentation to any other entity, any business combination opportunity involving the potential acquisition of a controlling interest (whether through the acquisition of a majority of the voting equity interests of the target or through other means) in a company that is not publicly traded on a stock exchange or over-the- counter market with an enterprise value of between $800 million and $3.2 billion, subject to (i) any fiduciary duties or contractual obligations they may have currently or in the future in respect of Trian Partners and any companies in which Trian Partners invests and (ii) any other pre-existing fiduciary duties or contractual obligations they may have. We expect primarily to target businesses within this range of enterprise values (calculated as equity value plus debt, minus cash), although we have the flexibility to acquire a business outside of this range. Each of our officers and directors (other than our independent directors) has a duty to present Trian Partners with opportunities that meet the investment strategy of Trian Partners, which consists primarily of making non-control investments in existing public companies. Mr. Peltz, Mr. May and Mr. Garden are also directors of Wendy’s/Arby’s Group, Inc. and, in addition to the general fiduciary duties they owe to Wendy’s/Arby’s, each of them (as well as Trian Fund Management, L.P.) has a contractual obligation to present Wendy’s/Arby’s with opportunities relating to investments in excess of 50% of the outstanding voting securities of businesses relating to the quick service restaurant industry. This contractual obligation will remain in effect for as long as Wendy’s/Arby’s continues to control the outstanding equity interest of businesses in the quick service restaurant industry, one or more of Mr. Peltz, Mr. May and Mr. Garden serves as a director of Wendy’s/Arby’s and these individuals together own in excess of 10% of Wendy’s/Arby’s common equity. Even in the absence of this contractual obligation, Mr. Peltz, Mr. May and Mr. Garden may owe fiduciary duties to present Wendy’s/Arby’s with business opportunities relating to the quick service restaurant industry, before presenting such opportunities to us, for as long as they serve on Wendy’s/Arby’s board of directors. In addition, Mr. Peltz owes a fiduciary duty to H. J. Heinz Company, of which he is a director, Mr. May owes a fiduciary duty to Tiffany & Co. and Deerfield Capital Corp., of which he is a director, and Mr. Garden owes a fiduciary duty to Chemtura Corporation, of which he is a director. To the extent that such individuals identify business combination opportunities that may be suitable for entities to which they have pre-existing fiduciary obligations, or are presented with such opportunities in their capacities as fiduciaries to such entities, they may honor their pre-existing fiduciary obligations to such entities. Accordingly, they may not present business combination opportunities to us that otherwise may be attractive to such entities unless the other entities have declined to accept such opportunities. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the doctrine of corporate opportunity, or any other analogous doctrine, will not apply against us or any of our officers or directors or our sponsor in circumstances that would conflict with any fiduciary duties or contractual obligations they may have currently or in the future in respect of Trian Partners or any companies in which Trian Partners invests or any other fiduciary duties or contractual obligations they may have as of January 29, 2008 (the date of the consummation of our initial public offering). Table of Contents The requirement that we consummate a business combination within 24 months (or up to 30 months if our stockholders approve an extension) after the consummation of our initial public offering may motivate our officers and directors to approve a business combination during that time period so that they may get their out-of-pocket expenses reimbursed. Our officers and directors and our sponsor may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them or their affiliates in connection with activities on our behalf such as identifying potential target businesses and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, including traveling to and from the offices, service centers or similar locations of prospective target businesses to examine their operations. The funds for such reimbursement will be provided from the money that is being held outside of the trust or is permitted to be disbursed to us from the trust. In the event that we do not effect a business combination by January 23, 2010 (the date that is 24 months from the date of the prospectus relating to our initial public offering), or up to July 23, 2010 (30 months from the date of such prospectus) if our stockholders approve an extension, then any expenses incurred by such individuals in excess of the money being held outside of the trust or permitted to be disbursed to us from the trust will not be repaid as we will liquidate at such time. On the other hand, if we consummate a business combination within such time period, those expenses may be repaid by the target business. Consequently, our officers and directors may have an incentive to approve and consummate a business combination for reasons other than just what is in the best interest of our stockholders. Our sponsor exercises significant influence over us and its interests in our business may be different than yours. Our sponsor, its permitted transferees (including our officers and directors and our other non-public stockholders) and certain affiliates of Trian Fund Management, L.P. collectively own approximately 25% of our issued and outstanding common stock. This ownership interest, together with any other acquisitions of our shares of common stock (or warrants that are subsequently exercised), including purchases pursuant to Trian Fund Management, L.P.’s purchase commitment, could allow our sponsor to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after consummation of our business combination. The interests of our sponsor and our public stockholders may not always align and taking actions that require approval of a majority of our stockholders, such as selling the company, may be more difficult to accomplish. Certain of our directors and affiliates have purchased, and our sponsor or our officers or directors or any of their affiliates may in the future purchase, for financial or other reasons, our securities in the open market or in private transactions in compliance with our insider trading policy. Any decision to purchase additional securities in the open market or in private transactions will likely be based on the offering or trading price of the securities and a determination that the purchase represents an attractive investment opportunity. In the event our sponsor or our officers or directors purchase shares in privately negotiated transactions from stockholders who have already cast votes against a proposed business combination and requested conversion of their shares, such selling stockholders would be required to revoke their prior votes against the proposed business combination and to revoke their prior elections to convert their shares and to cast new votes in favor of the proposed business combination. The revocation of prior negative votes and substitution therefor of votes in favor of the proposed business combination would have the effect of reducing conversions and increasing votes in favor of the proposed business combination, thereby making it more likely that a proposed business combination would be approved. We have opted out of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination transaction with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the interested stockholder became such. Therefore, subject to certain transfer restrictions described herein, our sponsor may transfer control of us to a third party by transferring our common stock, which would not require the approval of our board of directors or our other stockholders. In addition, such a change of control may not involve a merger or other transaction that would require payment of consideration to our other stockholders. The possibility that such a change of control could occur may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Claims for indemnification by our officers and directors may reduce the funds available to satisfy successful third-party claims against us and may reduce the amount of money in the trust account. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and pursuant to certain indemnity agreements, we have agreed to indemnify our officers and directors against a variety of expenses (including attorneys’ fees) to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law. If indemnification payments are made to our officers and directors pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and indemnity agreements, the amount of money in the trust account may be reduced. Table of Contents In certain circumstances, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors, thereby exposing itself and our company to claims of punitive damages. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders on a pro rata basis promptly after the termination of our existence by operation of law, this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or acted in bad faith, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. Claims may be brought against us for these reasons thereby exposing our board of directors and our company to claims of punitive damages. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. ITEM 