D. Risk factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have entered into an agreement to sell our remaining business operations in the PRC and have suspended our other operating joint venture, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our prospects. We entered into a joint venture with Binzhou Broadcasting in September 2007 and Hubei Chutian in June 2008. In late 2010, however, the Government of Shandong Province made an announcement for the consolidation of its provincial cable assets in Shandong Province. In accordance with “Lu Ban Fa” (2010) No.18, the Province will create a new company namely “Shandong Broadcasting and Television Network Co., Ltd.” and required all the cable network companies in Shandong Province to transfer all their assets and revenue to Shandong Broadcasting and Television Network Co., Ltd. Under this government policy, Binzhou Broadcasting was also required to transfer all its assets and revenue to the new company with effect from September 16, 2011. The business operation of Binzhou Broadcasting was therefore suspended effective September 16, 2011. All the contractual agreement and the exclusive services agreement made between JYNT, Binzhou SOE and Binzhou Broadcasting were effectively accordingly terminated. During the year ended December 31, 2011, Binzhou SOE charged a penalty of $754,979 (RMB5,000,000) against JYNT for the failure of settlement of further capital contributions of $16 million in accordance with the “Amendment Framework Agreement” regarding Binzhou Broadcasting. As a result, the economic benefit percentage of JYNT and Binzhou SOE in Binzhou Broadcasting was proportionally adjusted to reflect the actual fund provided and the deduction of the penalty charged. The parties are currently negotiating the existence and continued operations of Binzhou Broadcasting and the extent of the continued obligations of JYNT. On October 20, 2011, JYNT was approached by the joint venture partner, Hubei SOE, regarding the purchase of the assets and equity interest in Hubei Chutian. The proposed offer was agreed and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company. The parties entered into a Termination Agreement on March 22, 2012 and an Equity Transfer Agreement on June 15, 2012, pursuant to which the parties agreed to consideration of $59,378,819 for the purchase by Hubei SOE of the assets and equity interest in Hubei Chutian, (RMB374,140,000) to be received in six installments. As of September 13, 2012, JYNT had received $59,061,404 (RMB372,140,000) of the total consideration. In accordance with the terms of the agreement, JYNT agreed to transfer back its entire 49% equity interest in Hubei Chutian to the Hubei SOE and terminate the joint venture contractual agreement, technical services agreement and loan agreement with Hubei Chutian and Hubei SOE respectively. As a result, Hubei Chutian was no longer the operating joint venture of JYNT since June 15, 2012. 8 There can be no assurance that JYNT’s negotiations regarding Binzhou Broadcasting will result in the receipt of any consideration from Binzhou SOE regarding the transfer of its operating assets nor that Hubei SOE will continue to honor its payment obligations regarding the transfer of Hubei Chutian. Any such funds received by JYNT in the PRC are intended to be used by the Company to satisfy outstanding debt obligations, although such payments would require approval by the PRC government regarding currency transfers involving the Renminbi and may also be subject to applicable restrictions under PRC corporate and tax laws. The timing and amounts of any such intended payments cannot be estimated by us at this time. We are the defendant in a Section 12(j) proceeding by the SEC, the outcome of which may materially and adversely affect the trading market for our ordinary shares . On September 5, 2013, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) against the Company seeking the possible suspension or revocation of the Company’s registration under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. A hearing has been scheduled for October 7, 2013 to hear evidence regarding the matters described in the SEC order regarding this proceeding. While we cannot predict the outcome of this matter, should the administrative law judge enter an order revoking our status under the Exchange Act, brokers in the U.S. would no longer be permitted to execute trades regarding our ordinary shares, which would materially and adversely affect the trading market for our ordinary shares. We are subject to the risk of possibly becoming an investment company . Under Section 3(a)(1)(C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “1940 Act”), an issuer is deemed to be an investment company if it is engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding, or trading in securities, and owns or proposes to acquire “investment securities” having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer’s total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. The 1940 Act defines “investment securities” broadly to include virtually all securities except U.S. government securities and securities issued by majority-owned subsidiaries that are not themselves regulated or exempt investment companies. Rule 3a-1 under the 1940 Act exempts an issuer if no more than 45% of its total assets consist of, and not more than 45% of its net income (for the last four fiscal quarters combined) is derived from, securities other than U.S. government securities, securities issued by employees’ securities companies, securities of majority-owned subsidiaries and primarily controlled companies. We currently have no plans to invest the proceeds of the sales of Hubei Chutian or Binzhou Broadcasting in investment securities. If we do invest the proceeds in investment securities, it is possible that we could inadvertently be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. If we were to inadvertently become an investment company, we would have one year to divest of a sufficient amount of investment securities and/or acquire other assets sufficient to cause us to no longer be an investment company. Registered investment companies are subject to extensive, restrictive and potentially adverse regulation relating to, among other things, operating methods, management, capital structure, dividends and transactions with affiliates. If it were established that we are an unregistered investment company, there would be a risk, among other material adverse consequences, that we could become subject to monetary penalties or injunctive relief, or both, in an action brought by the SEC, that we would be unable to enforce contracts with third parties or that third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions with us undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. We do not believe that our planned principal activities will subject us to the 1940 Act. If we are deemed to be subject to the 1940 Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses. 9 Risk Associated with our Plan to Consummate a Business Combination Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are numerous blank check and other shell companies and we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the time frame acceptable to our board. Investors are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the target business’ operations. There is no basis for investors to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. We will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will not ultimately prove to be less favorable than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may issue shares of our ordinary shares and preferred stock to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and possibly cause a change in control of our ownership. Although we currently have no commitments to issue our securities, we may issue ordinary or preferred shares, or a combination thereof, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary or preferred shares: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of shareholders; • may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if preferred shares is issued with rights senior to those afforded to our ordinary shares; • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we have made all principal and interest payments when due if the debt security contains covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves and any such covenant is breached without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing while such security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, one or both of whom may or may not remain following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The future role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although it is possible that one or both of our key personnel will remain associated in various capacities with the target business following a business combination, it is likely that the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. Moreover, our key personnel will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination, the terms of which, including the compensation to be paid to such individuals, would be determined at such time between the respective parties. Such negotiations may take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. While the personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business, it is not anticipated that the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the consummation of a business combination will be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. 10 Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate a business combination with growth potential. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure the transaction or abandon a particular business combination. While our current assets may be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, in as much as we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If we require further funds, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; and • employment regulations. 11 We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. 12 Risks Relating to Our Corporate Structure Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain Securities and Exchange Commission requirements that provide shareholders the protection of information that must be made available to shareholders of United States public companies. As a foreign private issuer. we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: · The rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; · The sections of the Securities Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Securities Exchange Act; · Provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and · The sections of the Securities Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders may not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. We are a British Virgin Islands company and, because the rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have fewer protections as a shareholder. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association, the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended) of the British Virgin Islands (the “Act”) and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibility of the directors under British Virgin Islands law are governed by the Act and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states (such as Delaware) have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. If shareholders sought to sue our officers or directors, it may be difficult to obtain jurisdiction over the parties and access to the assets located in the PRC. Because certain of our officers and directors reside outside of the U.S., it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against such officers and directors by shareholders in the U.S. It also is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the U.S. and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. Furthermore, because any assets we may receive regarding Hubei Chutian and Binzhou Broadcasting are likely to be located in the PRC, it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against us in a U.S. court. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties with the U.S. providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the U.S. to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of U.S. courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. British Virgin Islands companies may not be able to initiate shareholder derivative actions, thereby depriving shareholders of the ability to protect their interests. British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The circumstances in which any such action may be brought, and the procedures and defenses that may be available in respect to any such action, may result in the rights of shareholders of a British Virgin Islands company being more limited than those of shareholders of a company organized in the United States. Accordingly, shareholders may have fewer alternatives available to them if they believe that corporate wrongdoing has occurred. The British Virgin Islands courts are also unlikely to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts in the United States based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities law, and to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the British Virgin Islands, based on certain liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. 13 The laws of the British Virgin Islands provide statutory protection for minority shareholders. Under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, there is some statutory law for the protection of minority shareholders under the Act. The principal protection under statutory law is that shareholders may bring an action to enforce our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Act sets forth the procedure to bring such a claim. Shareholders are entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted in accordance with the general law and the Amended and Restated Memorandum and Amended and Restated Articles of Association. Companies are not obligated to appoint an independent auditor and shareholders are not entitled to receive the audited financial statements of the company. There are common law rights for the protection of shareholders that may be invoked (such rights have also now been given statutory footing under the Act), largely dependent on English company law, since the common law of the British Virgin Islands for business companies is limited. Under the general rule pursuant to English company law known as the rule in Foss v. Harbottle, a court will generally refuse to interfere with the management of a company at the insistence of a minority of its shareholders who express dissatisfaction with the conduct of the company’s affairs by the majority or the board of directors. However, every shareholder is entitled to have the affairs of the company conducted properly according to law and the constituent documents of the corporation. As such, if those who control the company have persistently disregarded the requirements of company law or the provisions of the company’s memorandum or articles of association, then the courts will grant relief. Generally, the areas in which the courts will intervene are the following: (i) an act complained of which is outside the scope of the authorized business or is illegal or not capable of ratification by the majority, (ii) acts that constitute fraud on the minority where the wrongdoers control the company, (iii) acts that infringe on the personal rights of the shareholders, such as the right to vote, and (iv) where the company has not complied with provisions requiring approval of a special or extraordinary majority of shareholders, which are more limited than the rights afforded minority shareholders under the laws of many states in the U.S. The Act has introduced a series of remedies available to members. Where a company incorporated under the Act conducts some activity which breaches the Act or the company’s memorandum and articles of association, the court can issue a restraining or compliance order. Members can now also bring derivative, personal and representative actions under certain circumstances. The traditional English basis for members’ remedies have also been incorporated into the Act – where a member of a company considers that the affairs of the company have been, are being or are likely to be conducted in a manner likely to be oppressive, unfairly discriminating or unfairly prejudicial to him, he may now apply to the BVI court for an order on such conduct. Any member of a company may apply to the British Virgin Islands court for the appointment of a liquidator for the company and the court may appoint a liquidator for the company if it is of the opinion that it is just and equitable to do so. The Act provides that any member of a company is entitled to payment of the fair value of his shares upon dissenting from any of the following: (a) a merger; (b) a consolidation; (c) any sale, transfer, lease, exchange or other disposition of more than 50 per cent in value of the assets or business of the company if not made in the usual or regular course of the business carried on by the company but not including (i) a disposition pursuant to an order of the court having jurisdiction in the matter, (ii) a disposition for money on terms requiring all or substantially all net proceeds to be distributed to the members in accordance with their respective interest within one year after the date of disposition, or (iii) a transfer pursuant to the power of the directors to transfer assets for the protection thereof; (d) a redemption of 10 percent, or fewer of the issued shares of the company required by the holders of 90 percent, or more of the shares of the company pursuant to the terms of the Act; and (e) an arrangement, if permitted by the court. 14 Generally any other claims against a company by its shareholders must be based on the general laws of contract or tort applicable in the British Virgin Islands or their individual rights as shareholders as established by the company’s memorandum and articles of association. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Ordinary Shares Because we do not intend to pay dividends shareholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if they appreciate in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on factors our Board of Directors deems relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of China Cablecom Holdings’ credit facilities, if any, and any other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of the ordinary shares. There is no guarantee that our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. There is a risk that we could be treated as a U.S. domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in significantly greater U.S. federal income tax liability to us. Section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) generally provides that a corporation organized outside the United States that acquires, directly or indirectly, pursuant to a plan or series of related transactions substantially all of the assets of a corporation organized in the United States will be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if shareholders of the acquired corporation, by reason of owning shares of the acquired corporation, own at least 80% (of either the voting power or the value) of the stock of the acquiring corporation after the acquisition. If Section 7874(b) were to apply as a result of certain transactions effected in 2008 in connection with a redomestication merger and a business combination involving China Cablecom Holdings, Ltd., then, among other things, China Cablecom Holdings, Ltd. would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on its worldwide taxable income following such transactions as if it were a domestic corporation. Although it is not expected that Section 7874(b) will apply to treat China Cablecom Holdings, Ltd. as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, this result is not entirely free from doubt. As a result, shareholders are urged to consult their tax advisors on this issue. The balance of this discussion (including the discussion in the section of this Annual Report entitled “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation”) assumes that China Cablecom Holdings, Ltd. will be treated as a foreign corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this Annual Report captioned ‘‘Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – General’’) of our ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability upon a sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or the receipt of certain excess distributions from us and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the composition (and estimated values) of the assets and the nature of the income of us and our subsidiaries (including our former operating joint ventures in the PRC) in 2011, we do not believe that we were treated as a PFIC in 2011. However, because we have not performed a definitive analysis as to our PFIC status for such taxable year, there can be no assurance with respect to our PFIC status for such taxable year. There also can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for any subsequent taxable year. We urge U.S. Holders to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of this Annual Report captioned ‘‘Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.’’ 15 