Item 1A. Risk Factors In this section of the Form 10-K, we describe the risks we believe are most important for you to think about when you consider investing in, selling, or owning our stock or publicly traded debt. This information should be assessed along with the other information we provide you in this Form 10-K. Like most companies, our business involves risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face, but these are the ones we currently think have the potential to significantly affect stakeholders in our Company if they were to develop adversely (due to size, volatility, or both). We exclude risks that we believe are inherent in all businesses broadly as a function of simply being “in business.” Additional risks not currently known or considered immaterial by us at this time and thus not listed below could also result in adverse effects on our business. In the risk descriptions below, we have assigned the risks into categories to help you understand where they emanate from (e.g. the overall company or a specific segment). 13 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Overall Company Our growth strategy involves the potential for significant acquisitions, some of which may be outside our current industry. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. If an acquisition were to perform unfavorably, it could have an adverse impact on our value. One component of our strategy contemplates our making acquisitions. All acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties, some of which include, among other things, our ability to: • successfully identify targets for acquisition, • negotiate reasonable terms for any particular deal, • properly perform due diligence and determine all the significant risks associated with a particular acquisition, • properly evaluate target company management capabilities, and • successfully transition the acquired company into our business and achieve the desired performance. We also may acquire businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with potential industry or environmental regulations or tax contingencies. We have plans and procedures to conduct reviews of potential acquisition candidates for compliance with applicable regulations and laws prior to the acquisition and will also generally seek indemnification from sellers covering these matters. Despite these efforts, we may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. In the event that we acquire a business that operates outside of our current industries, we may not achieve the intended benefits of the acquisition and our business could be materially impacted. Under such circumstances, management could be required to spend significant amounts of time and resources in the transition of the business of the acquired entity due to the lack of experience in the industry of the acquired business. In addition, any benefits we anticipate from application of our lean manufacturing and lean business expertise may not be fully realized. Also, if we acquire a company that operates in an industry that is different from the ones in which we operate, our lack of experience with that company’s industry could have a material adverse impact on our ability to manage that business and realize the benefits of that acquisition. Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The severity of the recent economic recession caused by the ongoing worldwide financial and credit market disruptions have reduced the availability of credit generally necessary to fund economic growth and activity, and there is not yet clear evidence to suggest that efforts undertaken by the various government entities to mitigate this recession will be successful. A prolonged or double-dip recession could adversely affect our business in several ways. A continuation or worsening of the current credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability to obtain sufficient credit or pay for our products within the terms of sale and, as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and receivable write-offs could increase. A prolonged recession could further intensify the competition among the manufacturers and distributors with whom we compete for volume and market share, resulting in lower net revenues due to steeper discounts and further product mix-down. If certain key or sole suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the global economic conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies. In addition, the substantial losses in the equity markets as a result of the recent recession can have an adverse effect on the assets of the Company’s pension plans. A continuation of the volatility of interest rates and negative equity returns under current market conditions could require greater contributions to the defined benefit plans in the future. Our sales abroad subject us to the risk of adverse foreign currency fluctuations which could negatively impact our results of operations. We derived approximately 11.6%, 6.6% and 7.2% of our revenues from outside the U.S. for the years ended September 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Historically, these revenues have primarily been in Canada. With our recent acquisition of K-Tron in April 2010, significant international sales are now coming from Europe, the Middle East, and Asia. As a result, we believe our exposure to fluctuations in exchanges rates will increase proportionately and can have an unfavorable effect on our operating results, depending on the extent of that volatility. This exposure is most acute where we enter into sales contracts in currencies different from the currency in which we incur our costs (particularly the euro, where our costs are incurred in Swiss francs). Also, since the results of operations of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar versus each of the Swiss franc, the euro, the British pound sterling, the Canadian dollar, and the Swedish krona will affect the U.S. dollar amount of their operating results. Finally, we are exposed to foreign currency transactional gains and losses caused by the “marking to market” of balance sheet items of our foreign subsidiaries, which are measured in other currencies, particularly the euro on the balance sheet of our Swiss subsidiary. 14 Table of Contents Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials used in our products could adversely affect profitability. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by volatile prices for steel, red metals (i.e. copper and bronze), and fuel. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. These prices fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel-related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and, in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials that cannot be recovered through increases in the price of our products could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that the prices we are paying for commodities today will continue in the future or that the marketplace will continue to support current prices for our products or that such prices can be adjusted to fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but we do enter into some fixed price supply contracts. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured from only a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities, or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. Collection risk associated with our note receivable from Forethought Financial Group, Inc. (“Forethought”) could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. We hold a significant non-operating asset in the form of a note receivable (and related interest receivable) from Forethought. This asset was transferred to us at the time of separation of Hillenbrand Industries, Inc. into two separate publicly traded companies, Hillenbrand and Hill-Rom. As of September 30, 2010, this note receivable had an aggregate carrying value of $144.8 million. This note receivable primarily represents seller-provided financing to Forethought, the entity that purchased Hill-Rom’s former Forethought Financial Services, Inc. subsidiary. Forethought, through its subsidiaries, provides insurance and financial solutions for families managing retirement and end-of-life needs. Should Forethought fail to perform consistently with the original expectations set forth by Forethought or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, the note could become impaired, causing an impairment charge that could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Payments under the note are due in annual $10 million installments beginning on July 1, 2010, through July 1, 2014, at which time the balance of the note is due and payable (unless otherwise deferred in accordance with its terms). Volatility in our investment portfolio could negatively impact earnings as their performance is tied to market swings. Also, if we are unable to convert our portfolio of auction rate securities to cash at reasonable terms, our earnings could be adversely affected. In connection with our separation from Hill-Rom, ownership in certain investments in private partnerships were transferred to us that had an aggregate carrying value of $15.2 million as of September 30, 2010. Volatility in that investment portfolio negatively or positively impacts earnings. These investments could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, equity market swings, and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our results from operations. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we received a portfolio of auction rate securities (“ARS”) (consisting of highly rated tax-exempt state and municipal securities, the majority of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program) that Hill-Rom was not able to liquidate prior to the separation due to the market conditions and auction failures. The ARS had an aggregate carrying value of $11.9 million as of September 30, 2010. If conditions do not improve or worsen, we may not be able to convert these securities to cash for the foreseeable future and these assets could become impaired and could adversely affect our earnings. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, auto liability, and employment-related matters. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. For a more detailed discussion of our asserted claims, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Upon closing of the K-Tron acquisition, we increased our debt obligations significantly. This could adversely affect our Company and limit our ability to respond to changes in our businesses. As of September 30, 2010, our outstanding debt was $403.4 million. This level of debt could have important consequences to our businesses. For example: • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions because we have significantly lower borrowing capacity; • we will be required to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and acquisitions; • we will continue to be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest; and • our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which they operate may be more limited, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness. Risk Related to Batesville Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the sales volume of our burial caskets. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As the population of the U.S. continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in the U.S. will be relatively flat until the number of deaths increase due to aging baby boomers. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s and are also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the number of cremations in the U.S. is gradually and steadily increasing, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets. This was a contributing factor to lower burial casket sales volumes for Batesville in each of the last three fiscal years. We expect these trends to continue into the foreseeable future, and its burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market conditions. Finally, the number of deaths can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas, due to a variety of other factors, including the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause the sale of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. 16 Table of Contents Batesville’s business is significantly dependent on several major contracts with large national funeral providers. The relationships with these customers pose several risks. Batesville has contracts with a number of large national funeral home customers that comprise a sizeable portion of its overall sales volume. The largest contract is with Service Corporation International, which accounted for approximately 13% of Batesville’s 2010 consolidated net revenues (and was their only customer over 10%). Any decision by large national funeral home customers to discontinue purchases from Batesville could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Also, while contracts with large national funeral service providers give Batesville important access to many of the largest purchasers of funeral service products, they may obligate Batesville to sell products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting Batesville’s ability, in the short term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. Batesville is facing competition from a number of non-traditional sources and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral product providers could present more of a competitive threat to Batesville and its sales channel than is currently anticipated. Large discount retailers (such as Wal-Mart and Costco), casket stores, and internet casket retailers represent these types of competitors. Also, there are several manufacturers located in China producing caskets for sale into the U.S. While sales from these providers are currently a small percentage of total casket sales in the U.S. (we believe approximately 3%), it is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on Batesville in the future. These competitors and any new entrants into the market may drive pricing and other competitive actions in an industry that already has nearly twice the necessary domestic production capacity. Such competitive actions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Despite our recent successes in court, the antitrust litigation in which we are a defendant has not yet been resolved, and an adverse outcome in that matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. As discussed in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we are a defendant in a purported antitrust class action lawsuit. The Federal District Court denied class certification in that matter, and the Fifth Circuit denied the plaintiffs’ appeal petition. Further requests for reconsideration by the plaintiffs have also been denied. Despite these favorable rulings, the plaintiffs pursued their individual injunctive and damage claims. The District Court issued a final judgment dismissing the case, but the plaintiffs have filed an appeal, which could include an appeal of the District Court’s order denying class certification. If they succeed in reversing the District Court order denying class certification and a class is certified in the action filed against Hill-Rom and Batesville and if the plaintiffs prevail at a trial of the class action, the damages awarded to the plaintiffs, which would be trebled as a matter of law, could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and/or liquidity. In antitrust actions, the plaintiffs may elect to enforce any judgment against any or all of the codefendants, who have no statutory contribution rights against each other. A substantial portion of Batesville’s workforce is unionized, and it could face labor disruptions that would interfere with operations. Approximately 33% of Batesville’s employees as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations work under collective bargaining agreements. Although Batesville has not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of the principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 17 Table of Contents Risk Related to K-Tron A significant portion of our investment in K-Tron includes goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to periodic impairment evaluations. An impairment loss on these could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We acquired $404.5 million of intangible assets with the acquisition of K-Tron, of which $236.4 million was identified as either goodwill or indefinite-lived assets. As required by current accounting standards, we review intangible assets for impairment either annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. During the early years of an acquisition, the risk of impairment to goodwill and non-amortizing intangible assets is naturally higher. This is because the fair values of these assets align very closely with what we recently paid to acquire the reporting units to which these assets are assigned. This means the difference between the carrying value of the reporting unit and its fair value (typically referred to as “headroom”) is naturally smaller at the time of acquisition. Until this headroom grows over time (due to business growth or lower carrying value of the reporting unit due to natural amortization, etc.), a relatively small decrease in reporting unit fair value can trigger an impairment. That fair value is affected by actual business performance but is also determined by the market (usually reflected in the value of our common stock). As a consequence, even with favorable business performance, the market alone can drive an impairment condition if general business valuations decline enough. When impairment charges are triggered, they tend to be material due to the sheer size of the assets involved. Our next annual test of these assets for K-Tron is scheduled for April 1, 2011. K-Tron operates in cyclical industries. As an industrial capital goods supplier, many of the markets for K-Tron’s products are cyclical. During periods of economic expansion, when capital spending normally increases, K-Tron generally benefits from greater demand for its products. During periods of economic contraction, when capital spending normally decreases, K-Tron generally is adversely affected by declining demand for its products, and it may be subject to uncollectible receivables from customers who become insolvent. Also, even when there is economic expansion or increased demand for our equipment, there can be no assurance that this economic expansion or increased demand will be sustained in the markets in which we sell its products. K-Tron derives a substantial portion of its sales from the electric generating and coal mining industries. Any downturn in the demand for electricity or downturn in or disruption to the coal industry as a result of increased environmental laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. K-Tron sells size reduction equipment to the electric generating and coal mining industries, and consequently a significant portion of its sales are tied to the use of coal as a means of generating electricity. The demand by electric generating utilities for coal is dependent upon the availability and cost in any given location of alternative sources of energy, such as natural gas, oil, or nuclear power. As a result, any downturn in the demand for electricity, or downturn in or disruption to the coal industry (upon which electric utilities are dependent), could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Federal, state, and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury, and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, whose owners are principal customers of our size reduction business. These laws and regulations can require significant emission control expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated emission control expenditures. There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose limits on carbon dioxide emissions from coal-fired power plants. As a result, the cost of compliance could cause electric utilities to abandon the process of using coal to generate electricity altogether due to commercial impracticability and decreasing the demand for our products. 18 Table of Contents Risk Related to Our Common Stock Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Indiana law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation, By-laws, and Indiana law contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of our shareholders. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable our Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests. These provisions include, among others: • the division of our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered terms; • the inability of our shareholders to act by less than unanimous written consent; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock, as well as on certain “control share” acquisitions. We believe these provisions are important for a public company and protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise potentially unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our shareholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 