Item 1A. Risk Factors In this section of the Form 10-K, we describe the risks we believe are most important for you to think about when you consider investing in, selling, or owning our stock or debt. This information should be assessed along with the other information we provide you in this Form 10-K. Like most companies, our business involves risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face, but these are the ones we currently think have the potential to significantly affect stakeholders in our Company if they were to develop adversely (due to size, volatility, or both). We exclude risks that we believe are inherent in all businesses broadly as a function of simply being “in business.” Additional risks not currently known or considered immaterial by us at this time and thus not listed below could also result in adverse effects on our business. In the risk descriptions below, we have assigned the risks into categories to help you understand where they emanate from (e.g. the overall Company or a specific segment). Risk Related to Our Overall Company A key component of our growth strategy is making significant acquisitions, some of which may be outside our current industry. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. If an acquisition were to perform unfavorably, it could have an adverse impact on our value. All acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties, which may include, among other things, our ability to: · successfully identify targets for acquisition; · negotiate reasonable terms; · properly perform due diligence and determine all the significant risks associated with a particular acquisition; · properly evaluate target company management capabilities; and · successfully transition the acquired company into our business and achieve the desired performance. We may acquire businesses with unknown liabilities, contingent liabilities, or internal control deficiencies. We have plans and procedures to conduct reviews of potential acquisition candidates for compliance with applicable regulations and laws prior to acquisition. Despite these efforts, realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position, or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations. We generally seek indemnification from sellers covering these matters; however, the liability of the sellers is often limited, and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. We may not achieve the intended benefits of the acquisition and our business could be materially impacted. Under such circumstances, management could be required to spend significant amounts of time and resources in the transition of the acquired business. In addition, any benefits we anticipate from application of our lean manufacturing and lean business expertise may not be fully realized. If we acquire a company that operates in an industry that is different from the ones in which we operate, our lack of experience with that company’s industry could have a material adverse impact on our ability to manage that business and realize the benefits of that acquisition. Global market and economic conditions, including those related to the financial markets, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition, and liquidity. Our business is sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the U.S. Although we have seen stability or growth in some geographies since the global economic turmoil that began in 2008, we cannot assure you that these improvements will be sustainable or predict when the next recession will occur. In addition, the current uncertainties in the euro zone may depress demand in the area and create additional risk to our financial results. Instability in the global economy and financial markets can adversely affect our business in several ways, including limiting our customers’ ability to obtain sufficient credit or pay for our products within the terms of sale. Competition could further intensify among the manufacturers and distributors with whom we compete for volume and market share, resulting in lower net revenue due to steeper discounts and product mix-down. In addition, if certain key or sole suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies. Substantial losses in the equity markets could have an adverse effect on the assets of the Company’s pension plans. Volatility of interest rates and negative equity returns could require greater contributions to the defined benefit plans in the future. 11 Table of Contents International economic, political, legal, and business factors could negatively affect our operating results, cash flows, financial condition, and growth. We derived approximately 17%, 16%, and 12% of our revenue from outside the U.S. for the years ended September 30, 2012, 2011, and 2010. This revenue is primarily generated in Europe, the Middle East, Asia, South America, and Canada. In addition, we have manufacturing operations, suppliers, and employees located outside the U.S. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S., we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S. Our international business is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including: · interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; · differences in terms of sale, including payment terms; · local product preferences and product requirements; · changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic condition, including with respect to safety and health issues; · trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; · unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws; · limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; · difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; · differing labor regulations; · difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and · differing protection of intellectual property. We rely upon our employees, agents, and business partners to comply with laws in many different countries and jurisdictions. We establish policies and provide training to assist them in understanding our policies and the regulations most applicable to our business; however, our reputation, ability to do business, and financial results may be impaired by improper conduct by these individuals. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, anti-kickback and false claims rules, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering, and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions; could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and related shareholder lawsuits; could cause us to incur significant legal fees; and could damage our reputation. We are subject to risks arising from currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to currency exchange rate risk to the extent that our costs are denominated in currencies other than those in which we earn revenues. In addition, since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our results of operations. Although we address currency risk management through regular operating and financing activities, and, on a limited basis, through the use of derivative financial instruments, those actions may not prove to be fully effective. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials used in our products could adversely affect profitability. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. These prices fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel-related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and, in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials that cannot be recovered through increases in the price of our products could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that the prices we are paying for commodities today will continue in the future or that the marketplace will continue to support current prices for our products or that such prices can be adjusted to fully offset commodity price increases in the future. Any increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities could adversely affect our 12 Table of Contents profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions for raw material purchases, but we do enter into some fixed-price supply contracts. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities, or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. A portion of our workforce is unionized. The Company could face labor disruptions that would interfere with operations. Approximately 25% of Hillenbrand’s employees work under collective bargaining agreements. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of the principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Volatility in our investment portfolio could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. In connection with our separation from Hill-Rom, certain investments were transferred to us that had an aggregate carrying value of $13.3 as of September 30, 2012. Volatility in our investment portfolio impacts earnings. These investments could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, equity market volatility, and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty, but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are also subject to other potential claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, auto liability, and employment-related matters. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies. For a more detailed discussion of our asserted claims, see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, of this Form 10-K. Upon closing the K-Tron and Rotex acquisitions, we increased our debt obligations significantly and expect to increase them further with the pending acquisition of Coperion, as discussed in Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This could adversely affect our Company and limit our ability to respond to changes in our businesses. As of September 30, 2012, our outstanding debt was $271.6. This level of debt could have important consequences to our businesses. For example: · We may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions because we have lower borrowing capacity. · We will be required to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and acquisitions. · We will continue to be exposed to the risk of increased interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable rates of interest. · We may be more limited in our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the industries in which they operate, thereby placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less indebtedness. Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and facets of Indiana law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, as well as Indiana law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of our shareholders. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our Company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable our Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that the Board of Directors feels is not in the best interests of shareholders, but which some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests. 13 Table of Contents These provisions include, among others: · the division of our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered terms; · the inability of our shareholders to act by less than unanimous written consent; · rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; · the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and · limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock, as well as on certain “control share” acquisitions. We believe these provisions are important for a public company and protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise potentially unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with appropriate time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our Company immune from takeovers; however, they may apply if the Board of Directors determines that a takeover offer is not in the best interests of our shareholders, even if some shareholders believe the offer to be beneficial. Risk Related to the Process Equipment Group A significant portion of our investments in the Process Equipment Group includes goodwill and intangible assets that are subject to periodic impairment evaluations. An impairment loss on these assets could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We acquired intangible assets with the acquisitions of K-Tron and Rotex, portions of which were identified as either goodwill or indefinite-lived assets. We periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes, or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures, and market capitalization declines may impair these assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. The Process Equipment Group operates in cyclical industries. As an industrial capital goods supplier, the Process Equipment Group serves industries that are cyclical. During periods of economic expansion, when capital spending normally increases, the Process Equipment Group generally benefits from greater demand for its products. During periods of economic contraction, when capital spending normally decreases, the Process Equipment Group generally is adversely affected by declining demand for new equipment orders, and it may be subject to uncollectible receivables from customers who become insolvent. There can be no assurance that economic expansion or increased demand will be sustainable. The Process Equipment Group derives significant revenues from the energy industry. Any decline in demand for electricity, natural gas, or coal or an increase in regulation of the energy industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The Process Equipment Group sells dry material separation and size reduction equipment to the electric generating, natural gas, and coal mining industries. A significant portion of its sales are tied to the consumption of natural gas and coal as a means of generating electricity. The demand for natural gas and coal is dependent upon the availability and cost of alternative sources of energy, such as oil or nuclear power. Additionally, the cost of compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations on the energy industry may impact the demand for our products. As a result, any downturn in or disruption to the natural gas or coal industries or decline in the demand for electricity, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risk Related to Batesville Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the sales volume of our burial caskets. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As the population of the U.S. continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in the U.S. will be relatively flat until aging baby boomers cause the number of deaths to increase. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s and are expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. The increase in the number of cremations in the U.S. is resulting in a contraction in the 14 Table of Contents demand for burial caskets. This has been a contributing factor to lower burial casket sales volumes for Batesville in each of the last five fiscal years. We expect these trends to continue in the foreseeable future and will likely continue to negatively impact burial casket volumes. Finally, the number of deaths can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas, due to a variety of factors, including the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause the sale of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Batesville’s business is dependent on several major contracts with large national funeral providers. The relationships with these customers pose several risks. Batesville has contracts with a number of national funeral home customers that comprise a sizeable portion of its overall sales volume. Any decision by national funeral home customers to discontinue purchases from Batesville could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Also, while contracts with national funeral service providers give Batesville important access to purchasers of funeral service products, they may obligate Batesville to sell products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting Batesville’s ability, in the short term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. Batesville is facing competition from a number of non-traditional sources and from caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral product providers, such as large discount retail stores, casket stores, and internet casket retailers, could present more of a competitive threat to Batesville and its sales channel than is currently anticipated. In addition, a few foreign manufacturers, mostly from China, import caskets into the U.S. and Canada. For the past three years, sales from these non-traditional and Chinese providers have remained relatively stable and represent a small percentage of total casket sales in North America, collectively less than 5%. It is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on Batesville in the future. These competitors and any new entrants into the funeral products business may drive pricing and other competitive actions in an industry that already has nearly twice the necessary domestic production capacity. Such competitive actions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 