ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Associated with Our Business In addition to other information included in this report, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. 19 If we are forced to liquidate before a business combination and distribute the trust account, our public shareholders may receive less than $5.96 per share and our Warrants will expire worthless. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, if we are unable to complete a business combination within thirty months from the consummation of the IPO and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution may be less than $5.96 because of our general and administrative expenses, the anticipated costs of seeking a business combination and claims of creditors, if any. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding Warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination, our public shareholders will be forced to wait until February 11, 2011 (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our memorandum and articles of association) before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until February 11, 2011 in which to complete a business combination (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our memorandum and articles of association). We have no obligation to return funds to investors prior to such date unless we consummate a business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where investors have sought redemption of their shares. Only after the expiration of this full time period will public shareholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, investors’ funds may be unavailable to them until such date. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are numerous similarly structured blank check companies have completed IPOs in the United States with business plans similar to ours and there are a number of additional offerings still in registration. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If the funds available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate for at least the next 30 months, we may be unable to complete a business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until February 11, 2011, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. 20 A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete a business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes certain interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our initial shareholders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our initial shareholders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders may be less than $5.96 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public shareholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public shareholders, Chien Lee, Bill Haus, James Preissler, Peter Li and William B. Heyn have agreed that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. Because we will seek to have all vendors and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account, we believe the likelihood of Chien Lee, Bill Haus, James Preissler, Peter Li or William B. Heyn having any such obligations is minimal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we have questioned such individuals on their financial net worth and reviewed their financial information and believe they will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to do so. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust account, if we liquidate, will not be less than $5.96, plus interest, due to such claims. 21 Under certain circumstances, a Cayman Islands court could order that amounts received by shareholders be repaid to us. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provides that we will continue in existence only until thirty months from the consummation of our IPO (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association). If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, this will trigger our automatic liquidation and subsequent dissolution. As a result, this has the same effect as if we had formally went through a voluntary liquidation procedure under the Companies Law (2007 Revision) of the Cayman Islands (the “Companies Law”). In such a situation under the Companies Law, a liquidator would give at least 21 days’ notice to creditors inviting them to submit their claims for payment, by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the Cayman Islands Official Gazette and taking any other steps he or she may consider appropriate. In practice this notice requirement need not necessarily delay the distribution of assets as the liquidator may be satisfied that no creditors would be adversely affected as a consequence of a distribution before this time period has expired. As soon as the affairs of the Company are fully wound-up, the liquidator must lay his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a public notice at least one month before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must make a return to the Cayman Islands Registrar of Companies (“Registrar”) confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing the Company is dissolved. In the case of a full voluntary liquidation procedure, any liability of shareholders with respect to a liquidating distribution would be barred if creditors miss the deadline for submitting claims. Upon notice from the liquidator, the trustee of the trust account will distribute the proceeds in our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our automatic liquidation if we do not complete a business combination within 30 months after the consummation of our IPO. Pursuant to our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, failure to consummate a business combination within 30 months from the date of our IPO will trigger an automatic winding up of the Company. However, we cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us, and distributions (or part of them) could potentially be delayed while the liquidator identifies and assesses alleged creditor claims, or in the event the liquidation becomes subject to the supervision of the Cayman Islands court. If we are unable to consummate a transaction within 30 months from the consummation of our IPO (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended by shareholder vote, as provided in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association) this will trigger our automatic liquidation and subsequent dissolution. Upon notice from the liquidator, the trustee of the trust account will distribute the amount in our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our liquidation process. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. If there are insufficient funds held outside the trust account for such purpose, Chien Lee, Bill Haus, James Preissler, Peter Li and William B. Heyn have agreed that they will be personally liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. In addition, under certain circumstances distributions received by shareholders could be viewed by applicable laws (including insolvency laws and certain equitable and/or restitution principles) as either fraudulent transfers or mistaken or otherwise wrongful payments. In those circumstances, a Cayman Islands court could order that amounts received by our shareholders be repaid to us. 22 An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise Warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its Warrants and causing such Warrants to be practically worthless. No Warrant held by public shareholders will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue Ordinary Shares unless at the time such holder seeks to exercise such Warrant, a prospectus relating to the Ordinary Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant is current and the Ordinary Shares have been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the Warrants. Under the terms of the Warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to meet these conditions and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the Ordinary Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants until the expiration of the Warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, and if we do not maintain a current prospectus related to the Ordinary Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants, holders will be unable to exercise their Warrants and we will not be required to settle any such Warrant exercise. If the prospectus relating to the Ordinary Shares issuable upon the exercise of the Warrants is not current or if the Ordinary Shares are not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the Warrants reside, the Warrants held by public shareholders may have no value, the market for such Warrants may be limited and such Warrants may expire worthless. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Insider Warrants may be exercisable for unregistered Ordinary Shares even if the prospectus relating to the Ordinary Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants is not current. An investor will only be able to exercise a Warrant if the issuance of Ordinary Shares upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the Warrants. No Warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue Ordinary Shares unless the Ordinary Shares issuable upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the Warrants. Because the exemptions from qualification in certain states for resales of Warrants and for issuances of Ordinary Shares by the issuer upon exercise of a Warrant may be different, a Warrant may be held by a holder in a state where an exemption is not available for issuance of Ordinary Shares upon an exercise and the holder will be precluded from exercise of the Warrant. At the time that the Warrants become exercisable (following our completion of a business combination), we expect to become listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their Warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the Ordinary Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. As a result, the Warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the Warrants may be limited and the holders of Warrants may not be able to exercise their Warrants if the Ordinary Shares issuable upon such exercise is not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the Warrants reside. 23 Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose and are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our Units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in our IPO than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. We may issue shares of our share capital or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association authorizes the issuance of up to 50,000,000 Ordinary Shares, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 preferred shares, par value $.0001 per share. There are 27,012,000 authorized but unissued Ordinary Shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding Warrants and the unit purchase option granted to EarlyBirdCapital, the representative of the underwriters in our IPO) and all of the 1,000,000 preferred shares available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional Ordinary Shares or preferred shares, or a combination of ordinary and preferred shares, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary or preferred shares: • may significantly reduce the equity interest of investors; • may subordinate the rights of holders of Ordinary Shares if we issue preferred shares with rights senior to those afforded to our Ordinary Shares; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of Ordinary Shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our Ordinary Shares. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: 24 • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of key personnel. The role of these individuals in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of them may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with the Company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the Company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with the Company after the consummation of a business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination and we do not intend to insist on arrangements to ensure that our officers and directors will be able to maintain their positions with the Company after the consummation of our initial business combination. 25 Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of a business combination. All of our executive officers are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. All of our officers and directors own Ordinary Shares issued prior to our IPO and an affiliate of certain of our officers and directors owns warrants. These shares and warrants will not participate in liquidation distributions and, therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors own Ordinary Shares that were issued prior to our IPO, for which they paid an aggregate of $25,000. Additionally, CS Capital USA, Bill Haus, James Preissler, Peter Li and William B. Heyn purchased Insider Warrants upon consummation of the IPO. Such individuals have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to their initial shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the Ordinary Shares acquired prior to our IPO, as well as the Insider Warrants, and any Warrants purchased by our officers or directors in our IPO or in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. If our Ordinary Shares become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If at any time we have net tangible assets of $5,000,000 or less and our Ordinary Shares have a market price per share of less than $5.00, transactions in our Ordinary Shares may be subject to the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Under these rules, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: 26 • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. If our Ordinary Shares become subject to these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and you may find it more difficult to sell our securities. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our IPO, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our business combination must be with a business with a fair market value of at least 80% of our net assets at the time of such acquisition, although this may entail the simultaneous acquisitions of several operating businesses at the same time. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. 27 We may proceed with a business combination even if public shareholders owning 39.99% of the shares sold in our IPO exercise their redemption rights. We may proceed with a business combination as long as public shareholders owning less than 40% of the shares sold in our IPO exercise their redemption rights. Accordingly, approximately 39.99% of the public shareholders may exercise their redemption rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the redemption percentage at 40% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our shares will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public shareholders. Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of shareholders exercise their redemption rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (but not our existing shareholders) the right to have his, her or its Ordinary Shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its redemption rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. 28 We may require shareholders who wish to redeem their Ordinary Shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public shareholders who wish to redeem their Ordinary Shares in connection with a proposed business combination to either tender their share certificates to our transfer agent at any time prior to the vote taken at the shareholder meeting relating to such business combination or to deliver their Ordinary Shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical share certificate, a shareholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that shareholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical share certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical share certificate. While we have been advised that it takes a short time to deliver shares through the DWAC System, we cannot assure you of this fact. Accordingly, if it takes longer than we anticipate for shareholders to deliver their shares, shareholders who wish to redeem may be unable to meet the deadline for exercising their redemption rights and thus may be unable to redeem their Ordinary Shares. Moreover, our transfer agent will typically charge the tendering broker $35 to certificate the shares and it would be up to the broker whether or not to pass this cost on to the redeeming holder. If a proposed business combination is ultimately rejected and we are unable to complete another business combination, such fee would have been incurred unnecessarily. Additionally, if you own very few shares and this fee is passed on to you when you seek to redeem your shares, the cost may outweigh the benefit of redemption. Public shareholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group” with, will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our IPO. When we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (but not our existing shareholders) the right to have his, her, or its Ordinary Shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a “group” will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our IPO. Accordingly, if you purchase more than 10% of the shares sold in our IPO and a proposed business combination is approved, you will not be able to seek redemption rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional Ordinary Shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a business combination or that the market price of our Ordinary Shares will exceed the per-share redemption price. 29 Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire with the net proceeds of our IPO, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding Warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. Additionally, the fact that many blank check companies that have gone public in the United States have not completed a business combination, it may indicate that there are fewer attractive target businesses available to such entities like our company or that many privately held target businesses are not inclined to enter into these types of transactions with publicly held blank check companies like ours. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our IPO will be sufficient to allow us to consummate a business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our IPO prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of the business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to redeem for cash a significant number of Ordinary Shares from dissenting shareholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, if we consummate a business combination, we may require additional financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or shareholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after a business combination. 30 Our existing shareholders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Our existing shareholders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding Ordinary Shares. Our board of directors is and will be divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of a business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our existing shareholders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our existing shareholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of a business combination. Our outstanding Warrants and option may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Ordinary Shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We have issued Warrants to purchase 11,040,000 Ordinary Shares as part of the Units offered in our IPO and the Insider Warrants to purchase 3,608,000 Ordinary Shares. We also issued an option to purchase 480,000 Units to the representative of the underwriters which, if exercised, will result in the issuance of an additional 960,000 Warrants. To the extent we issue Ordinary Shares to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares upon exercise of these Warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. Such securities, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding Ordinary Shares and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our Warrants and option may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the Ordinary Shares underlying the Warrants or option could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these Warrants and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. If our existing shareholders or the holders of the Insider Warrants (or underlying securities) exercise their registration rights with respect to their securities, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Ordinary Shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. Our existing shareholders are entitled to make a demand that we register the resale of their initial shares at any time commencing three months prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. Additionally, the holders of the Insider Warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their Insider Warrants and underlying Ordinary Shares at any time after we consummate a business combination. If such individuals exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 1,380,000 Ordinary Shares and 3,608,000 Warrants, as well as 3,608,000 Ordinary Shares underlying the Warrants, eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional Ordinary Shares trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Ordinary Shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our Ordinary Shares. 31 If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we will invest the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. 32 Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extraction treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the United States federal securities laws. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law and other statutes (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) or the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders (including shareholder derivative actions) and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. Moreover, the Cayman Islands has a less prescriptive body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. Although there is not statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize a foreign judgment as the basis for a claim at common law in the Cayman Islands provided such judgment: • is given by a competent foreign court; • imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given; • is final; • is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and • was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. 33 Risks Related to Operations in China Business combinations with companies with operations in China entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in China, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: After a business combination, substantially all of our assets will likely be located in China and substantially all of our revenue will be derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. China’s GDP has grown consistently since 1978 (National Bureau of Statistics of China). However, we cannot assure you that such growth will be sustained in the future. If in the future China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could materially and adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and if we effect a business combination, the ability of that target business to become profitable. The PRC’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us, depending on the industry in which we engage in a business combination. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to a potential target business and a business combination. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, results of operations and prospects. A recent positive economic change has been the PRC’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, the sole global international organization dealing with the rules of trade between nations. It is believed that the PRC’s entry will ultimately result in a reduction on tariffs for industrial products, a reduction in trade restrictions and an increase in trading with the United States. If actions are not taken to rectify these problems, trade relations may be strained and this may have a negative impact on China’s economy. 34 If relations between the United States and the PRC deteriorate, potential target businesses or their goods or services could become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, the United States recently announced its intention to impose new short-term quotas on Chinese clothing imports, which may be extended for several years. Such import quotas may adversely affect political relations between the two countries and result in retaliatory countermeasures by the PRC in industries that may affect our ultimate target business. Relations may also be compromised if the U.S. becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. As a result of merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006 relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, it is expected that acquisitions will take longer and be subject to economic scrutiny by the PRC government authorities such that we may not be able to complete a transaction. On September 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce, together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside the PRC. Although there was a complex series of regulations in place prior to September 8, 2006 for approval of Chinese enterprises that were administered by a combination of provincial and centralized agencies, the new regulations have largely centralized and expanded the approval process to the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (SAIC), the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) or its branch offices, the State Asset Supervision and Administration Commission, and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Depending on the structure of the transaction as determined once a definitive agreement is executed, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the aforementioned agencies, some of which must be made within strict time limits and depending on approvals from one or the other of the aforementioned agencies. The application process has been supplemented to require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the business to be acquired and evaluations of the acquirer which will permit the government to assess the economics of a transaction in addition to the compliance with legal requirements. If obtained, approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed. Also, completed transactions must be reported to MOFCOM and some of the other agencies within a short period after closing or be subject to an unwinding of the transaction. It is expected that compliance with the regulations will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly for the Chinese parties and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, a business combination we propose may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. 35 Because the September 8, 2006, PRC merger and acquisition regulations permit the government agencies to have scrutiny over the economics of an acquisition transaction and require consideration in a transaction to be paid within stated time limits, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our shareholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The regulations have introduced aspects of economic and substantive analysis of the target business and the acquirer and the terms of the transaction by MOFCOM and the other governing agencies through submissions of an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction as determined once a definitive agreement is executed. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets. The regulations require that in certain transaction structures, the consideration must be paid within strict time periods, generally not in excess of a year. Because the Chinese authorities expressed concern with offshore transactions which converted domestic companies into foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) in order to take advantage of certain benefits, including reduced taxation, in China, regulations require new foreign sourced capital of not less than 25% of the domestic company’s post–acquisition capital in order to obtain FIE treatment. Accordingly, if a sufficient amount of foreign capital is not infused into the domestic company, it will not be eligible to obtain FIE treatment. In asset transactions there must be no harm of third parties and the public interest in the allocation of assets and liabilities being assumed or acquired. These aspects of the regulations will limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Therefore, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with terms that will satisfy our investors and protect our shareholders interests in an acquisition of a Chinese business or assets. The PRC merger and acquisition regulations of September 8, 2006, have introduced industry protection and anti-trust aspects to the acquisition of Chinese companies and assets which may limit our ability to effect an acquisition. Under the PRC merger and acquisition regulations, acquisitions of Chinese domestic companies relating to “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or result in the transfer of “actual control” of companies having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names” must be reported and approved by the Ministry of Commerce. The merger and acquisition regulations also provide for antitrust review requirements for certain large transactions or transactions involving large companies and roll-up transactions with the same effect in the relevant Chinese market. In addition, certain mergers and acquisitions among foreign companies occurring outside of the PRC could also be subject to antitrust review in China which is similar to United States anti-trust law concepts. The regulations use various economic tests to determine if the transaction has to be reported to MOFCOM which include (i) if any of the parties to the transaction has a turnover in the Chinese market of more than RMB 1,500,000,000, (ii) if in a transaction outside of the PRC, any party thereto has assets in the PRC of more than RMB 3,000,000,000, (iii) if any of the parties to the transaction, before its consummation, has control not less than 20% of the Chinese market, (iv) if any of the parties as a result of the transaction will control 25% of the Chinese market, (v) the foreign investor has acquired 10 or more enterprises in related industries in the PRC during the last year, or (vi) if in a transaction outside of the PRC results in the foreign entities acquiring 15 or more FIEs in related industries within the PRC. Exemptions may be sought from the MOFCOM and SAIC on the basis that: (i) the transaction will improve market competition, (ii) the transaction will restructure unprofitable entities and ensures employment, (iii) the transaction will introduce high technologies and increase international competitiveness, and (iv) the transaction will improve the environment. Notwithstanding the September 8, 2006, regulations, there is a draft anti-monopoly law being considered which may replace or supplement the above provisions. Any transaction that we contemplate will have to comply with these regulations and may require additional approval or abandonment if we are not able to satisfy the requirements of the governmental authorities. When we evaluate a potential transaction, we will consider the need to comply with these regulations which may result in our modifying or not pursuing a particular transaction. 36 Ambiguities in the regulations of September 8, 2006 may make it difficult for us to properly comply with all applicable rules and may affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Although the merger and acquisition regulations provide specific requirements and procedures, there are many ambiguities which give the regulators great latitude in the approval process which will cause uncertainty in our ability to complete a transaction on a timely basis. The merger and acquisition regulations set forth many requirements that have to be followed, but there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions. Although further regulations are anticipated in the future, until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty in the scope of the regulations. Moreover, the ambiguities give the regulators wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and the transactions to which they may or may not apply. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which the regulations will apply to a transaction, and therefore, there may be uncertainty in whether or not a transaction will be completed until the approval process is under way or until the preliminary approvals are obtained. This may negatively impact our ability to consummate a business combination. If the PRC imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed which could materially and adversely impact our profitability following a business combination. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Imposition of similar restrictions may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in the services or products we may ultimately offer leading to a material and adverse impact on our profitability. 37 Any devaluation of currencies used in the PRC could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and any appreciation thereof could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to complete a business combination with a target business having its primary operating facilities located in the PRC, and because substantially all revenues and income following a business combination would be received in a foreign currency such as Renminbi, the main currency used in the PRC, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the United States dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Historically, China “pegged” its currency to the United States dollar. This meant that each unit of Chinese currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the Chinese currency low when compared to other countries gave Chinese companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from other countries, the PRC recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value for its currency. However, China recently adopted a floating rate with respect to the Renminbi, with a 0.3% fluctuation. This floating exchange rate, and any appreciation of the Renminbi that may result from such rate, could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Further, target companies may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that a target business with which we consummate a business combination will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. Fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi relative to foreign currencies could affect our operating results. Following a business combination, our payroll and other costs of non-United States operations will be payable in foreign currencies, primarily Renminbi. To the extent future revenue is denominated in non-United States currencies, we would be subject to increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of Renminbi against the United States dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. As our operations will be primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. The Chinese government recently announced that it is pegging the exchange rate of the Renminbi against a number of currencies, rather than just the United States dollar. Fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate could adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and to operate our business after a business combination. 38 Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (SAFE) regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our ownership structure. With such registration certificates, which need to be renewed annually, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency conversion within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. If the PRC enacts regulations in our target business’ proposed industry segments which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not explicitly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, they could severely limit the candidate pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant Chinese authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. 39 Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely affect our ability to acquire PRC companies. Notice on Issues Relating to Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fundraising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, was issued on October 21, 2005 by the SAFE (that replaced two previously issued regulations on January 24, 2005 and April 8, 2005, respectively) that will require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Although SAFE issued an implementation Notice No. 106, or Notice 106, on May 29, 2007 to its local branches or agencies (but not openly disclosed to the public), the uncertainty as to when and how the new procedure and requirements will take effect or be enforced, and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these existing regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We are committed to complying with the relevant rules. As a result of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of the target business we intend to acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed business combination. This may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect our operations. Because Chinese law will govern almost all of any target business’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Chinese law will govern almost all of our target business’ material agreements, many of which may be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws and contracts in the PRC may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. 40 If we acquire a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses in China, such contracts may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of such businesses and may be difficult to enforce. The government of the PRC has restricted or limited foreign ownership of certain kinds of assets and companies operating in certain industries. The industry groups that are restricted are wide ranging, including certain aspects of telecommunications, advertising, food production, and heavy equipment manufacturers, for example. In addition there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names.” Subject to the review requirements of the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant agencies as discussed elsewhere for acquisitions of assets and companies in the PRC and subject to the various percentage ownership limitations that exist from time to time, acquisitions involving foreign investors and parties in the various restricted categories of assets and industries may nonetheless sometimes be consummated using contractual arrangements with permitted Chinese parties. To the extent that such agreements are employed, they may be for control of specific assets such as intellectual property or control of blocks of the equity ownership interests of a company which may not be subject to the merger and acquisition regulations mentioned above since these types of arrangements typically do not involve a change of equity ownership in a PRC operating company, injure a third party or affect the social public interest. The agreements would be designed to provide our company with the economic benefits of and control over the subject assets or equity interests similar to the rights of full ownership, while leaving the technical ownership in the hands of Chinese parties who would be our nominees and, therefore, may exempt the transaction from the merger and acquisition regulations, including the application process required thereunder. However, since there has been limited implementation guidance provided with respect to the merger and acquisition regulations, there can be no assurance that the relevant government agency would not apply them to a business combination effected through contractual arrangements. If such an agency determines that such an application should have been made consequences may include levying fines, revoking business and other licenses, requiring restructure of ownership or operations and requiring discontinuation of any portion of all of the acquired business. These agreements likely also would provide for increased ownership or full ownership and control by us when and if permitted under PRC law and regulation. If we choose to effect a business combination that employs the use of these types of control arrangements, we may have difficulty in enforcing our rights. Therefore these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with the same economic benefits, accounting consolidation or control over a target business as would direct ownership. For example, if the target business or any other entity fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure will be sufficient to off-set the cost of enforcement and may adversely affect the benefits we expect to receive from the business combination. Moreover, we expect that the contractual arrangements upon which we would be relying would be governed by Chinese law and would be the only basis of providing resolution of disputes which may arise through either arbitration or litigation in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with Chinese law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with Chinese legal procedures. Uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert the effective level of control or receive the full economic benefits of full direct ownership over the target business. 41 If our management following a business combination is unfamiliar with United States securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. Following a business combination, our management will likely resign from their positions as officers of the Company and the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. We cannot assure you that management of the target business will be familiar with United States securities laws. If new management is unfamiliar with our laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Because any target business with which we attempt to complete a business combination may be required to provide our shareholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with and reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles, prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States Federal securities laws, in order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business may be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, we may not be able to complete a business combination with that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may complete a business combination. Furthermore, to the extent that we seek to acquire a target business that does not have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, it could make it more difficult for our management to analyze such target business and determine whether it has a fair market value in excess of 80% of our net assets. It could also delay our preparation of our proxy statement that we will send to shareholders relating to the proposed business combination with such a target business, thereby making it more difficult for us to consummate such a business combination. If certain exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes are removed, we may be required to deduct Chinese corporate withholding taxes from dividends we may pay to our shareholders following a business combination. According to the PRC’s applicable income tax laws, regulations, notices and decisions related to foreign investment enterprises and their investors (the “Applicable Foreign Enterprises Tax Law”), income such as dividends and profits distribution derived from the PRC and received by a foreign enterprise which has no establishment in the PRC is subject to a 20% withholding tax, unless the relevant income is specifically exempted from tax under the Applicable Foreign Enterprises Tax Law. Currently, profits received by a shareholder, such as through dividends, from a foreign-invested enterprise (an “FIE”) is exempted. Under a newly promulgated Enterprise Income Tax Law, the foregoing exemption will be removed starting from January 1, 2008 when such new law becomes effective, in which circumstances we may be required to deduct certain amounts from dividends we may pay to our shareholders to pay corporate withholding taxes. 42 After we consummate a business combination, our operating company in China will be subject to restrictions on dividend payments. After we consummate a business combination, we will rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in China would permit our operating company in China to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in China will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such reserve account may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. If any dividend is declared in the future and paid in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends at the time you receive them, even if you actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars when the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the conversion rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Thus, if the value of the foreign currency decreases before you actually convert the currency into U.S. dollars, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will actually ultimately receive. If we are treated as a “passive foreign investment company,” it could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. If we are determined to be a passive foreign investment company, known as a “PFIC,” U.S. holders could be subject to adverse United States federal income tax consequences. Specifically, if we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year, each U.S. holder may be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether we are a PFIC will be made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the market value of our Ordinary Shares from time to time, which may be volatile. In general, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For purposes of these tests, cash, including working capital, and investments are considered assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If a corporation would otherwise be a PFIC in its start-up year (defined as the first taxable year such corporation earns gross income), it is not treated as a PFIC in that taxable year, provided that: (i) no predecessor corporation was a PFIC; (ii) it is established to the Internal Revenue Service’s satisfaction that the corporation will not be a PFIC in either of the two succeeding taxable years; and (iii) the corporation is not, in fact, a PFIC for either succeeding taxable year. We cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. 43 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. ITEM 