Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the continuing operations and the price of the Company’s common stock are subject to the following risks, each of which could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations. General Risks of Food Industry The food industry, and the markets within the food industry in which the Company competes, are subject to various risks, including: adverse changes in general economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, nutritional and health-related concerns, federal, state and local food inspection and processing controls, consumer product liability claims, risks of product tampering, and the availability and expense of liability insurance. The meat and poultry industries have recently been subject to increasing scrutiny due to the association of meat and poultry products with recent outbreaks of illness, and on rare occasions even death, caused by food borne pathogens. Product recalls are sometimes required in the food industries to withdraw contaminated or mislabeled products from the market. Risks Relating to Suppliers and Raw Materials The Company purchases large quantities of commodity pork, beef and flour. Historically, market prices for products processed by the Company have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including changes in the United States government farm support programs, changes in international agricultural and trading policies, weather and other conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons. The Company’s operating results are heavily dependent upon the prices paid for raw materials. The marketing of the Company’s value-added products does not lend itself to instantaneous changes in selling prices. Changes in selling prices are relatively infrequent and do not compare with the volatility of commodity markets. The impact of general price inflation on the Company’s financial position and results of operations has not been significant during the last three years. 5 Risks Relating to Government Regulation The operations of the Company are subject to extensive inspection and regulation by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”), the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and by other federal, state and local authorities, regarding the processing, packaging, storage, transportation, distribution and labeling of products that are manufactured, produced and processed by the Company. The Company’s processing facilities and products are subject to continuous inspection by USDA and/or other federal, state and local authorities. On July 25, 1996, the USDA issued strict new policies concerning contamination by food borne pathogens such as E. coli, Listeria Monocytogenes and Salmonella, and established a new system of regulation known as the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) program. The HACCP program requires all meat and poultry processing plants to develop and implement sanitary operating procedures and other program requirements on or before January 26, 1998. The Company believes that it is currently in compliance with all material governmental laws and regulations (including the January 1998 HACCP requirements), and that it maintains all material permits and licenses relating to its operations. On October 6, 2003, new USDA regulations regarding the control of Listeria Monocytogenes in Ready-To-Eat Meat and Poultry Products took effect. These regulations require environmental and/or finished product testing for harmful bacteria that may be present. This testing could result in products being retained, recalled or destroyed if Listeria Monocytogenes is detected. The Company believes that it is in full compliance with these regulations. Risks Relating to Dependence on Key Management The Company’s executive officers and certain other key employees have been primarily responsible for the development and expansion of the Company’s business, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s success will be dependent in part upon its continued ability to recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in this regard. The Company has no employment or non-competition agreements with key personnel. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 