D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company and Industry Because our business depends significantly on clients headquartered in Greater China, the United States, Europe and Japan, any economic slowdown in these regions or other factors that affect IT offshore outsourcing from the United States, Europe or Japan could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. As of December 31, 2010, substantially all of our net revenues were derived from clients headquartered in Greater China, the United States, Europe and Japan. These economies continue to be impacted by the recent global economic downturn, which have had some adverse effects on our business and results of operations in 2010, including increased pricing pressures from some of our clients and some delays in obtaining new projects from existing clients. Furthermore, the recent earthquake and tsunami that occurred in Japan in March 2011 have caused substantial damage and has threatened to send the Japanese economy into a recession. As of the date of this annual report, the extent to which the earthquake and tsunami will affect Japanese’s economy and the global economy still remains unclear. However, we have seen a slowdown in the increase of our net revenues derived from the Japanese clients in the first quarter of 2011 due to the impact from the earthquake and tsunami. If there are adverse changes to the macro-economic conditions of our or our key clients’ key markets, our clients may cancel, reduce or defer their IT spending or change their IT outsourcing strategy, and our utilization and billing rates for our professionals could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, IT offshore outsourcing is becoming an increasingly politically sensitive issue in the United States, Europe and Japan. For example, many organizations and public figures in the United States and Europe have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in their home countries. As a result, current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services from onshore to offshore providers. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing in response to political pressure would harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of onshore facilities and adversely affect our business and financial results. 6 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our revenues and any loss of business from these clients could reduce our revenues and significantly harm our business. We have derived, and believe that in the foreseeable future we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of clients. In 2008, each of Microsoft, IBM and Huawei accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues, and in the aggregate accounted for 38.8% of our net revenues. In 2009, each of Huawei, Microsoft and a European mobile handset manufacturer accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues, and in the aggregate accounted for 47.0% of our net revenues. In 2010, each of Huawei and Microsoft accounted for 10% or more of our net revenues, and in the aggregate accounted for 37.8% of our net revenues. Our top five clients accounted for approximately 53.8%, 56.3% and 55.5% of our net revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these clients is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. A number of factors other than our performance could cause the loss of or reduction in business or revenue from a client and these factors are not predictable. For example, a client may demand price reductions, change its outsourcing strategy, switch to another IT outsourcing service provider or return work in-house. We generally do not have long-term commitments from any of our clients to purchase our services. Although we usually enter into master service agreements, or MSAs, with clients, these MSAs are not commitments to purchase our services, and statements of work, or SOWs, from clients are required for specific orders to purchase our services. In addition, the MSAs and SOWs typically may be terminated by our clients on short notice. If we fail to enter into or renew MSAs with one or more of our major clients in any particular period, if major clients reduce their service volumes under SOWs, or if any existing MSAs or SOWs with major clients are terminated, some or all of the business of our major clients could be lost or reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenues are highly dependent on a limited number of industries and any decrease in demand for outsourced services in these industries could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, a majority of our net revenues were derived from clients in the telecommunications and high technology industries. Our business growth largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients in these industries and other industries that we may target in the future, as well as on trends in these industries to outsource research and development services, or R&D services, enterprise solutions, application development and maintenance, or ADM, quality assurance and testing, globalization and localization and other IT services. A downturn in any of our targeted industries, particularly the telecommunications and high technology industries, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource IT services in any of these industries or the introduction of regulations which restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing could result in a decrease in the demand for our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Other developments may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services in these industries. For example, consolidation in any of these industries or acquisitions, particularly involving our clients, may decrease the potential number of buyers of our services. Any significant reduction in or the elimination of the use of the services we provide within any of these industries would result in reduced revenues and harm our business. Our clients may experience rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressure on their profitability. This, in turn, may result in increasing pressure on us from clients in these key industries to lower our prices, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents We face intense competition from onshore and offshore IT outsourcing companies and, if we are unable to compete effectively, we may lose clients and our revenues may decline. Our clients may also choose to use internal resources to provide the IT services they need, thereby causing us to lose revenues. The market for IT services is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase due to a number of factors. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are industry experience, quality of the services offered, reputation, marketing and selling skills, as well as price. We face significant competition from various competitors, including: • other China-based IT services companies, such as, Chinasoft International Ltd., or Chinasoft International, HiSoft Technology International Limited, or Hisoft, Neusoft Group Ltd., or Neusoft, SinoCom Software Group Limited, or SinoCom, iSoftStone Holdings Limited, or iSoftStone, and Camelot Information Systems Inc., or Camelot; • Indian IT services companies, such as Cognizant Technology Solutions Corp., or Cognizant, HCL Technologies Ltd., or HCL, Infosys Technologies Ltd., or Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services Ltd., or TCS, and Wipro Technologies, or Wipro; • in-house IT departments of large corporations; and • offshore IT service providers in emerging outsourcing destinations with low wage costs such as Southeast Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe. In addition, the trend towards offshore outsourcing, international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes will result in new and different competitors entering our markets. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Some of these existing and future competitors have greater financial, human and other resources, longer operating histories, greater technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships in the industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address client needs, or enter into similar arrangements with potential clients. Clients tend to engage multiple IT services outsourcing providers instead of using an exclusive service provider, which could reduce our revenues to the extent that clients obtain services from other providers. Clients may prefer service providers that have facilities located globally or that are based in countries more cost-competitive than China. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our clients while competing against such competitors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not have long-term commitments from our clients, and our clients may terminate contracts before completion or choose not to renew contracts, which could adversely affect our business and reduce our revenues. Our clients are not obligated for any long-term commitments to us. Many of our MSAs are either renewable for one-year period or have no fixed terms, and our SOWs are typically project-based and are generally valid for not more than one year. In addition, our clients can terminate many of our MSAs and SOWs with or without cause, and in most cases without any cancellation charge. Some of our MSAs specify that if a change of control of our company occurs during the term of the contract, the client has the right to 8 Table of Contents terminate the contract. If any future event triggers any change-of-control provision in our client contracts, these contracts may be terminated, which would result in our loss of revenues. Most of the MSAs we have entered into with our clients require us to purchase and maintain specified insurance coverage during the terms of the MSAs, including commercial general insurance or public liability insurance, umbrella insurance, product liability insurance, and workmen’s compensation insurance. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, a number of these types of insurance are not available on reasonable terms in China. We have purchased general commercial liability insurance for our facilities in China for the period from October 13, 2010 to October 13, 2011, and we have also purchased information and network technology errors or omissions liability insurance for our facilities in China for the period from October 13, 2010 to October 13, 2011, but we still do not satisfy the contractual requirement of certain of our key clients. Although to date no client has brought any claims against us for such failure, our clients have the right to terminate these MSAs. Failure to perform or observe any contractual obligations could result in cancellation or non-renewal of a contract, which could cause us to experience a higher than expected number of unassigned employees and an increase in our cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, until we are able to reduce or reallocate our headcount. The ability of our clients to terminate MSAs makes our future revenues uncertain. We may not be able to replace any client that elects to terminate or not renew its contract with us, which would adversely affect our business and revenues. Furthermore, in some of our MSAs, our clients are also entitled to request us to transfer, to them or their designees, the assets of our offshore development centers in China, or CDCs, that serve them and all of the operating relationships, including leases for the premises of the CDCs, employment relationships with the employees dedicated to the CDCs and contracts with subcontractors, at a pre-agreed transfer price which is generally a multiple of our monthly service fees from the relevant client for CDC services prior to the transfer. This transfer fee will either be reduced ratably based on the elapsed operation term of the CDC or subject to a maximum amount. In addition to the above amounts, the relevant client is also required to pay the lower of fair market value or net book value for the assets to be transferred that have not already been charged to the client. If our clients exercise these rights, we may lose some of our business and key employees, or may be required to transfer our assets and employees to a third party, and our losses may not be fully covered by the contractual payment. Our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and could fall below investor expectations or estimates by securities research analysts, which may cause the trading price of our ADSs to decline. Our revenues and operating results can vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, such as variations in the volume of business from clients resulting from changes in our clients’ operations, the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services, delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities and infrastructure, changes to our pricing structure or that of our competitors, inaccurate estimates of resources and time required to complete ongoing projects and currency fluctuations. For example, some of our MSAs permit our clients to reduce or modify the volume of services under any SOW at any time. As many of our employees take long vacations during the Chinese New Year in the first quarter, our revenues in that quarter are relatively low compared to the other quarters. Moreover, our results may vary depending on our clients’ business needs and IT spending patterns. Due to the annual budget cycles of most of our clients, we may not be able to estimate accurately the demand for our services beyond the immediate calendar year, which could adversely affect our business planning and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the volume of work performed for specific clients is likely to vary from year to year, particularly since we typically are not the exclusive outside service provider to our clients. Thus, a major client in one year may not provide the same amount or percentage of our revenues in any subsequent year. 9 Table of Contents The long sales cycle for our services, which typically ranges from three to twelve months, and the internal budget and approval processes of our prospective clients make it difficult to predict the timing of new client engagements. Accordingly, the financial benefit of gaining a new client may be delayed due to delays in the implementation of our services. In addition, some of our testing projects and ADM projects last several months. Due to the foregoing and other factors, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future and operating results for any period may not be indicative of our performance in any future period. If our operating results for any quarterly period fall below investor expectations or estimates by securities research analysts, the trading price of our ADSs may decline. We may face difficulties in offering new and existing service lines and managing increasingly large and complex projects, which could lead to clients discontinuing their work with us, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely affecting our ability to implement our growth plans. We have been expanding the scope of our services by offering additional industry practices and service lines. The success of these new and expanded practices and service lines is dependent, in part, upon demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. We cannot be certain that we will be able to attract existing and new clients for such new services or effectively meet our clients’ needs. We intend for the expansion of our practices and service lines to result in larger and more complex projects for our clients. To achieve this result, we need to establish closer relationships with our clients and develop a thorough understanding of their operations. Our ability to establish such relationships will depend on the proficiency of our management personnel, professionals and, if necessary, subcontractors, as well as other competitive factors such as our performance and delivery capabilities. Larger and more complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and failure to plan appropriately may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth, which could place significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We may not be able to achieve anticipated growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business recently. Our net revenues grew to US$211.6 million in 2010 from US$15.5 million in 2005. Since 2005, we have completed a number of acquisitions and established or acquired a number of offices in Greater China, the United States, Europe, Japan and Malaysia. We have also set up a number of CDCs. As of December 31, 2010, we had 9,827 professionals, as compared to 1,015 professionals as of December 31, 2005. We are actively looking at additional locations to establish new offices and expand our current offices and CDCs. We intend to continue expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. This rapid growth places significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth, we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting, human resources and other internal management systems, all of which require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our client relationships. Moreover, as we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar. All of these endeavors will involve risks and require substantial management effort and skill. As a result of any of these problems associated with expansion, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we may not be able to achieve anticipated growth, which could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to integrate acquired companies efficiently, or if the acquired companies do not perform to our expectations, we may not be able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, and our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. Historically, we have expanded our service capabilities and gained new clients through selective acquisitions such as our acquisitions of Shanghai VanceInfo Technologies Limited, or Shanghai VanceInfo, Beijing Chosen Technology Co., Ltd., or Chosen, TP Teleservices Limited, TP Consultants Limited, TP (Taiwan) Limited, TP (Hong Kong) Limited, or TP Hong Kong, and TP Software Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or TP Shanghai (together with TP Teleservices Limited, TP Consultants Limited, TP (Taiwan) Limited and TP Hong Kong, the “TP Companies”), Link Result Limited, or Link Result, Beijing Viatt Information Technology Co. Ltd., or Beijing Viatt, Lifewood Technology Limited, or Lifewood Technology, Lifewood Data Technology Limited, or Lifewood Data, Lifewood Data Technology (Shenzhen) Limited, or Lifewood Shenzhen, and Lifewood Data Technology (Dongguan) Limited, or Lifewood Dongguan (together with Lifewood Technology, Lifewood Data and Lifewood Shenzhen, the “Lifewood Companies”) in the past. Our growth strategy involves gaining new clients and expanding our service lines, both organically and through strategic acquisitions. Our ability to successfully integrate an acquired entity and its operations may be adversely affected by a number of factors. These factors include: • diversion of management’s attention; • difficulties in retaining clients of acquired companies; • difficulties in retaining personnel of acquired companies; • entry into unfamiliar markets; • unanticipated problems or legal liabilities; and • tax and accounting issues. Furthermore, the acquired companies may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including legislative or regulatory changes that affect the products or services in which a company specializes, and the loss of key clients and personnel, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are not able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, our overall profitability and growth plans may be adversely affected. We expect that a portion of our income may in the future be generated on a project basis with a fixed price; we may fail to accurately estimate costs and determine resource requirements in relation to our projects, which would reduce our margins and profitability. We expect that a portion of our income may continue to be generated from fees we receive for our projects with a fixed price. Our projects often involve complex technologies and must often be completed within compressed timeframes and meet increasingly sophisticated client requirements. We may be unable to accurately assess the time and resources required for completing projects and to price our projects profitably. An underestimation of required time and resources may result in cost overruns and mismatches in project staffing. Conversely, an overestimation of our costs may result in our submitting uncompetitive bids and loss of business. Furthermore, any failure to complete a project within the stipulated timeframe could also expose us to contractual or other liabilities and may damage our reputation. These and other factors could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Due to intense competition for highly skilled personnel, we may fail to attract and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations; our ability to bid for and obtain new projects may be negatively affected and our revenues could decline as a result. The IT services industry relies on skilled employees, and our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees. The IT services industry experiences high employee turnover. We may encounter higher attrition rates in the future. There is significant competition in China for professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer to our clients. Increased competition for these professionals, in the IT services industry or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on us. A significant increase in the attrition rate among employees with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. In addition, our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel that enable us to keep pace with growing demands for outsourcing, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. Our failure to attract, train and retain personnel with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new employees successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to retain our key personnel on client projects or find suitable replacements of the key personnel upon their departure may lead to termination of some of our MSAs or cancellation of some of our SOWs, which could materially adversely affect our business. Increases in wages for professionals could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and could reduce our profit margins. Wage costs for professionals in China are lower than comparable wage costs in more developed countries and India. However, the wage costs in China’s IT services industry may increase at a faster rate than in the past. In the long term, wage increases may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our professionals as well as the prices we can charge for our services. Increases in wage costs, may reduce our profit margins. In addition, the issuance of equity-based compensation to our professionals would also result in additional dilution to our shareholders. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of Chris Shuning Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer. In addition, we rely on David Lifeng Chen, our executive vice chairman and co-president, Sidney Xuande Huang, our co-president and chief financial officer, Frances Hong Zhang, our chief operating officer, Junbo Liu, our chief business development officer, Jeff Jian Wu, our chief globalization officer, Stanley Ying Zhou, our chief administrative officer, and Howard Hao Yu, one of our executive vice presidents, to run our business operations. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. We may incur additional expenses to recruit, train and retain personnel, our business may be severely disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents If any of our senior executives or key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key professionals and staff members to them. Also, if any of our business development managers who keeps a close relationship with our clients joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, and our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Each of our senior executives has entered into employment agreements with us that contain non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and us, such non-competition provisions may not be enforceable, especially in China, where most of these executive officers and key employees reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us.” The growth and success of our business depends on our ability to anticipate and respond in a timely manner to the evolving demands for IT services. The IT services market is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, changing customer preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future growth and success depend significantly on our ability to anticipate developments in IT services, and offer and develop new product and service lines to meet our clients’ evolving needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely manner, or if we do respond, the services or technologies we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Moreover, the emergence of new national and international industry standards could render our products or those of our clients unmarketable or obsolete and may require us to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with any such new standards. Should we fail to adapt to the rapidly changing IT services market or if we fail to develop suitable services to meet the evolving and increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our client contracts contain provisions which, if triggered, could result in lower future revenues and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our MSAs provide that, if during the term of such MSAs, we offer or accept lower prices for our services that are similar to those we provide under these MSAs, to or from any other clients while all other terms and conditions are similar, we will be obligated to offer equally favorable prices to the clients under these MSAs. Such provisions, if triggered, would result in lower future revenues and profits to us under these MSAs. Certain other contracts of ours allow clients in certain circumstances to request a semi-annual benchmarking report comparing our direct costs and operating costs, measured as a percentage of revenues, with those of an agreed list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to make improvements to future services we provide or there may be reduction in new business from the clients. The triggering of any of these contractual provisions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to expand our business and procure new contracts or enter into beneficial business arrangements may be affected by non-competition clauses in our agreements with existing clients. Certain of our existing MSAs and other agreements have non-competition clauses, which restrict us from providing services to customers of our existing clients. Many of our MSAs contain clauses that restrict our employees working for a particular client from providing services to a competitor of that client. Such clauses may restrict our ability to offer services to different clients in a specific industry or market. 13 Table of Contents Our MSAs with some of our clients provide that, during the term of the MSA and for a twelve-month period thereafter and under specified circumstances, we may not accept any assignments from, or render similar services to, those clients’ customers. Some of our contracts also provide that, although we are free to render other services to clients’ customers prior to the receipt of SOWs from our clients, such services may not create any conflicts of interest with the services we provide to those clients, and we must obtain our clients’ prior written consent to continue providing services to their customers before we begin rendering similar services to our clients. Moreover, we may not compete with our clients, or bid for or accept any assignment which our client is bidding for or is negotiating. These restrictions may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to other clients in a specific industry or market in which we have expertise and may adversely affect our revenues and future profitability. If we cause disruptions to our clients’ businesses or provide inadequate service, our clients may have claims for substantial damages against us, and as a result our profits may be substantially reduced. Most of our contracts with clients contain performance requirements. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our professionals in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client’s business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us. In addition, a failure or inability to meet a contractual requirement could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business. The services we provide are often critical to our clients’ businesses, and any failure to provide those services could result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of whether we are responsible for that failure. Our CDC methodology requires us to maintain active data and voice communications between our main development centers in China and our international clients’ offices. Any significant failure of our equipment or systems, or any major disruption to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications in the locations in which we operate, could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, reduce our revenues and harm our business. Under our contracts with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client. To the extent that our contracts contain limitations on liability, such limitations may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients, are generally not limited under our contracts. Although we have purchased general commercial liability insurance for our facilities in China for the period from October 13, 2010 to October 13, 2011, and we have also purchased information and network technology errors or omissions liability insurance for our facilities in China for the period from October 13, 2010 to October 13, 2011, the successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could still have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and confidential information, whether through our employees or otherwise. We are typically required to manage, utilize and store sensitive or confidential client data in connection with the services we provide. Under the terms of our client contracts, we are required to keep such information strictly confidential. We seek to implement specific measures to protect sensitive and confidential client data. We require our employees and subcontractors to enter into non-disclosure arrangements to limit access to and distribution of our clients’ sensitive and confidential information as well as our own trade secrets. We can give no assurance that the steps taken by us in this regard will be adequate to protect our clients’ confidential information. If our clients’ proprietary rights are misappropriated by our employees or our subcontractors or their employees, in violation of any applicable confidentiality agreements or otherwise, our clients may consider us liable for that act and seek damages and compensation from us. However, we currently do not have any insurance coverage for mismanagement or misappropriation of such information by our subcontractors or employees. Any litigation with respect to unauthorized disclosure of sensitive and confidential information might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of intellectual property of our clients, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on software licenses from our clients with respect to certain individual projects. To protect proprietary information and other intellectual property of our clients, we require our employees to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Implementation of intellectual property-related laws in China has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property rights and confidentiality in China may not be as effective as that in the United States or other developed countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of proprietary technology of our clients. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of proprietary technologies of our clients could enable third parties to benefit from our or our clients’ technologies without paying us for doing so, and our clients may hold us liable for that act and seek damages and compensation from us, which could harm our business and competitive position. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. It is critical that we use and develop our technology and services without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business. A successful infringement claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology, or re-brand our name or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and cease making, licensing or using products that have infringed a third party’s intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential clients deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our clients against infringement claims in certain instances. Also, we may be unaware of intellectual property registrations or applications relating to our services that may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology containing the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be exposed to legal proceedings, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damages or otherwise adversely affect our business and operation. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings, investigations and claims incidental to the conduct of our business. In November 2010, Jonathan Jianguo Jiang, or Jiang, filed an action naming us, our subsidiary VanceInfo Technologies Inc., a Delaware corporation, or VanceInfo US, and our executives Chris Shuning Chen and David Lifeng Chen as defendants in the Superior Court of California, County of San Mateo. See Item 8, “Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Legal Proceedings.” This action and any future legal proceedings against us may divert our management’s attention regardless of the final results of the legal proceedings. Furthermore, these proceedings, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damages or otherwise adversely affect our business and operation. 15 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition candidates, which could impede our growth and negatively affect our revenues and net income. We expect a portion of our future growth to come from acquisitions of high-quality IT services companies. It is possible that in the future we may not succeed in identifying suitable acquisition candidates. Even if we identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to consummate an acquisition on terms commercially acceptable to us. Many of our competitors are likely to be seeking to acquire the same targets that we are looking to acquire. Such competitors may have substantially greater financial resources than we do and may be able to outbid us for the targets. If we are unable to complete suitable acquisitions, our growth strategy may be impeded and our revenues and net income could be negatively affected. We may face certain risk with respect to our proposed purchase of land use right. In November 2009, we entered into agreements with a Beijing-based developer regarding our proposed acquisition of the use right to two parcels of land with 37,492 square meters of permitted floor space in Zhongguancun Software Park, Haidian District, Beijing. We have paid approximately US$18.0 million relating to the land use right as of December 31, 2010. Currently, the necessary governmental permits are being applied for. Given this initial application stage, there is significant uncertainty regarding whether or when these governmental permits will be obtained. If we fail to timely acquire the land use right and obtain the relevant governmental permits, we may not be able to timely build our office premises on these parcels of land as planned and our expansion plan may be affected. In addition, we plan to move our headquarters and research and development center to the new office premises built on these parcels of land in the future. Due to the concentration of our operations, any future problem in our facilities such as loss of power or earthquake may limit our ability to conduct our business. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws following our initial public offering in December 2007. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. These requirements apply to this annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report, which has concluded that we maintained, in all material aspects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could negatively affect the reliability of our financial information and result in the loss of investors’ confidence in our reported financial information, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 16 Table of Contents Failure to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could result in our being unable to effectively perform our services. Failure to adhere to regulations that govern our clients’ businesses could result in breaches of contracts with our clients. Our clients’ business operations are subject to certain rules and regulations in China or otherwise. Our clients may contractually require that we perform our services in a manner that would enable them to comply with such rules and regulations. Some of our contracts concluded with clients headquartered in the United States and elsewhere provide that we shall comply with the United States export regulations while handling any information, process, product or service and that we shall adhere to regulations that apply to our clients’ businesses. Some of our IT services provided to certain banking clients for their Japanese operations are required to comply with the regulations promulgated by Japanese regulators. Failure to perform our services in such a manner could result in breaches of contract with our clients and, in some limited circumstances, civil fines and criminal penalties for us. In addition, we are required under various Chinese laws to obtain and maintain permits and licenses for the conduct of our business. If we do not maintain our licenses or other qualifications to provide our services, we may not be able to provide services to existing clients or be able to attract new clients and could lose revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The financial soundness of our clients and vendors could affect our business and results of operations. As a result of the disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy of the United States and other parts of the world, our clients, subcontractors, suppliers and other vendors may experience cash flow concerns. As a result, clients may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our services and vendors may reduce their output, change terms of sales, or stop providing goods or services to us. Additionally, if clients’ or vendors’ operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, clients may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable owed to us and vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms, or stop providing goods or services to us. Any inability of current or potential clients to pay us for our services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, if one or more of our vendors stops providing goods or services to us, or interrupts its provision of goods or services to us, our business could be disrupted and we may incur higher costs. We may incur losses resulting from business interruptions resulting from occurrence of natural disasters, health epidemics and other outbreaks or events, and we have limited insurance coverage. Our CDCs and other operational facilities may be damaged in natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods, heavy rains, sand storms, tsunamis and cyclones, or other events such as fires. Such natural disasters or other events may lead to disruption of information systems and telephone service for sustained periods. Damage or destruction that interrupts our provision of outsourcing services could damage our relationships with our clients and may cause us to incur substantial additional expenses to repair or replace damaged equipment or facilities. We may also be liable to our clients for disruption in service resulting from such damage or destruction. We have purchased general commercial liability insurance for our facilities in China for the period from October 13, 2010 to October 13, 2011, and we have also purchased information and network technology errors or omissions liability insurance for our facilities in China for the period from October 13, 2010 to October 13, 2011, but our insurance coverage may not be sufficient. Prolonged disruption of our services as a result of natural disasters or other events would also entitle our clients to terminate their contracts with us. 17 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of H1N1, or swine flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak. An outbreak of swine flu in Mexico and the United States in the summer of 2009 has spread to China and human cases of swine flu were and continue to be discovered in China. Any prolonged occurrence of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things, quarantines or closures of our facilities which could severely disrupt our operations, and the sickness or death of our key officers and employees. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine flu, avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. On June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that it will allow a more flexible exchange rate for Renminbi without mentioning specific policy changes, although it ruled out any large-scale appreciation. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. As a majority of our costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi, a resumption of the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as our operating subsidiaries in China receive revenues primarily in Renminbi, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues in U.S. dollar terms and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. We also receive a portion of our revenues in Hong Kong Dollar, Japanese Yen and Euro. Any significant depreciation of the Hong Kong Dollar, Japanese Yen or Euro against the Renminbi or U.S. dollar would adversely affect our revenues in Renminbi or U.S. dollar terms, respectively. Furthermore, the value of our shares may be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB because the value of our business is effectively denominated in RMB, while our shares are traded in U.S. dollars. Depreciation of the value of the U.S. dollar will also reduce the value of the cash we hold in U.S. dollars, which we may use for purposes of future acquisitions or other business expansion. 18 Table of Contents We incurred net foreign exchange losses of US$32,000, US$93,000, US$119,000 and US$1.0 million in 2005, 2006, 2009 and 2010, respectively. As very limited types of hedging transactions are available in the PRC to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, we have not entered into any such hedging transactions, except for a forward exchange contract to purchase US$5 million for JPY448.75 million in October 2010 and a forward exchange contract to purchase US$5 million for JPY432.5 million in July 2011. Accordingly, we still cannot predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations and may incur net foreign exchange losses in the future. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively.” If tax benefits currently available to our subsidiaries are reduced or repealed, our business and results of operations could suffer. Prior to January 1, 2008, companies established in China were generally subject to a state and local enterprise income tax, or EIT, at statutory rates of 30% and 3%, respectively. Under the applicable PRC rules and policies, an enterprise qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” located in the Beijing New Industry Development Pilot Zone was entitled to a preferential EIT rate of 15% and was further entitled to a three-year EIT exemption from either its first year of operation or, if it was incorporated in the second half of a calendar year, its second year of operation if so selected, and a 50% reduction of its applicable EIT rate for the succeeding three years. VanceInfo Creative Software Technology Ltd., or VanceInfo Beijing, Beijing Prosoft Software Technology Co., Ltd., or Prosoft, which was liquidated in December 2008, and Beijing Innovation Technology Co., Ltd., or ITC, which was sold in February 2008, were qualified as “high and new technology enterprises” located in the Beijing New Industry Development Pilot Zone, and enjoyed preferential tax treatment as a result of this status. VanceInfo Beijing was entitled to enjoy a 7.5% EIT rate from 2008 to 2010. Prosoft and ITC were entitled to enjoy a 7.5% EIT rate from 2007 to 2009. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new EIT Law, which took effect beginning January 1, 2008. On December 6, 2007, the State Council also adopted the Implementing Rules for the Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the Implementing Rules, which also took effect beginning January 1, 2008. Moreover, on December 26, 2007, the State Council circulated the Notice on Implementation of the Transitional Preferential Policies in respect of Enterprise Income Tax, which took effect beginning December 26, 2007. On February 22, 2008, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice of the Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation on Several Preferential Policies in respect of Enterprise Income Tax, which took effect beginning February 22, 2008. Under the new EIT Law, foreign invested enterprises, or FIEs, such as VanceInfo Beijing, and Chinese domestic companies are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to entities that are classified as “high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the State” or that conduct business in encouraged sectors, whether FIEs or domestic companies. On April 14, 2008, Ministry of Science and Technology, Ministry of Finance and State Administration of Taxation enacted the Administrative Measures for Certifying High and New Technology Enterprises, which retroactively became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the new EIT Law, enterprises that had been established and already enjoyed then applicable preferential tax treatment prior to March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy it subject to the following qualifications: (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, for a period of five years from January 1, 2008, or (ii) in the case of a preferential tax exemption or reduction for a specified term, until the expiration of such term. In addition, certain qualified high-technology companies may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of 15% if they own their core intellectual properties and are classified into certain industries strongly supported by the State set forth by certain departments of the State Council. 19 Table of Contents VanceInfo Beijing was qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” with a valid term of three years in December 2008 and is entitled to the preferential EIT rate of 7.5% from 2008 to 2010. On April 21, 2010, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Further Clarifying the Implementation Criteria of Preferential Policies on Enterprise Income Tax during the Transitional Period, or Circular 157, which provides additional guidance on the interaction of certain preferential tax rates under the transitional rules of the new EIT Law. Prior to Circular 157, we understood that if a high and new technology enterprise was in a tax holiday period, when it was entitled to a 50% reduction in the EIT rate and it was also entitled to a 15% preferential EIT rate for a high and new technology enterprise, it would be entitled to pay EIT at the rate of 7.5%. Circular 157 appears on its face to have the effect that such an entity is entitled to pay taxes at either the lower of 15% or 50% of the applicable EIT rate (in terms of a foreign-invested high and new technology enterprise located in the Beijing New Industry Development Pilot Zone such as VanceInfo Beijing, 18% for 2008, 20% for 2009, 22% for 2010, 24% for 2011 and 25% starting from 2012). However, to date, Beijing local-level tax bureau has not implemented Circular 157 and is holding the view that the relevant provisions may not apply to high and new technology enterprises in Beijing New Industry Development Pilot Zone. Therefore, VanceInfo Beijing’s current tax rate remained unchanged. However, if the relevant tax authorities issue more guidance on the implementation of Circular 157 or implementing Circular 157 more strictly in the future, VanceInfo Beijing’s effective tax rate may increase. Shanghai VanceInfo was qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” in December 2008, which entitled it to a 15% preferential EIT rate in 2008, and was further recognized as a “key software enterprise under the State plan” in December 2009, which entitled it to enjoy a 10% preferential EIT rate in 2009. Shanghai Vanceinfo was entitled to enjoy a 15% preferential EIT rate in 2010 due to its status as a “high and new technology enterprise.” TP Shanghai, which we acquired in July 2009, was qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” in December 2008 with a valid term of three years and is entitled to the preferential tax rate of 15% in 2009 and 2010. Nanjing VanceInfo Creative Software Technology Limited, or Nanjing VanceInfo, was recognized as a “software enterprise” in 2009 and was entitled to be exempted from EIT in 2009 and 2010 and a 50% reduction of its applicable EIT rate with the reduced applicable EIT rate of 12.5% from 2011 to 2013. A-IT (Shanghai) Software Services Co., Ltd., or A-IT Shanghai, became one of our wholly owned subsidiaries in 2010. A-IT Shanghai was incorporated in 2002 and was recognized as a “software enterprise” in 2007, and therefore, it was entitled to be exempted from EIT in 2007 and 2008, and was entitled to a 50% tax reduction of its applicable EIT rate with the reduced applicable EIT rate of 10%, 11%, and 12% in 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. However, continued qualification as a “high and new technology enterprise” is subject to a review every three years by the relevant government authorities in China, and in practice certain local tax authorities also require annual evaluation of the qualification; continued qualification as a “key software enterprise under the State plan” or “software enterprise” is subject to an annual assessment by the relevant government authorities in China. Consequently, there is no assurance that our subsidiaries will continue to meet the qualifications or that the relevant government authorities will not revoke our subsidiaries’ “high and new technology enterprise”, “key software enterprise under the State plan”, or “software enterprise” statuses in the future. Any increase in our PRC subsidiaries’ EIT rate pursuant to the new EIT law may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, pursuant to relevant tax rules, each of VanceInfo Beijing, Shanghai VanceInfo, VanceInfo Technologies Limited, or VanceInfo Tianjin, Shanghai VanceInfo Creative Software Technology Limited, or VanceInfo Shanghai Creative, Nanjing VanceInfo, A-IT Shanghai, Shenzhen VanceInfo Creative Software Technology Limited, or VanceInfo Shenzhen, and TP Shanghai, may enjoy exemption from business tax with respect to the software development business and related technology consultancy services that it engages in, which falls under the definition of technology development business. Expiration of, or changes to, these tax benefits or treatments will have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Restrictions on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to customers in the United States or other countries, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenues to decline. The vast majority of our employees are Chinese nationals. Some of our projects require a portion of the work to be undertaken at our clients’ facilities which are sometimes located outside China. The ability of our professionals to work in the United States, Europe, Japan and other countries outside China depends on their ability to obtain the necessary visas and work permits. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring business visas for our employees. Our reliance on visas for a number of employees makes us vulnerable to such changes and variations as it affects our ability to staff projects with professionals who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. As a result, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient number of visas for our employees or we may encounter delays or additional costs in obtaining or maintaining such visas. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. Substantially all of our business operations are currently conducted in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has been reforming the economic system in China. These reforms have resulted in significant economic growth. However, we cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. Furthermore, while the economy of China has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. In addition, the PRC economy has shown signs of inflation in recent periods. In order to control inflation, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such an austere policy can lead to a slowing of economic growth and could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. Furthermore, the current global economic crisis is adversely affecting the economy in the U.S. and many other countries and regions around the world. As the PRC economy has become increasingly linked with the global economy, China is affected in various respects by downturns and recessions of major economies around the world. The various economic and policy measures enacted by the PRC government to forestall economic downturns or bolster China’s economic growth could materially affect our business. Any adverse change in the economic conditions in China, in policies of the PRC government or in laws and regulations in China, could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and market demand for our IT services. Such developments could adversely affect our businesses, lead to reduction in demand for our services and adversely affect our competitive position. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We are a holding company, and we conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries incorporated in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 21 Table of Contents Our global income and the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC tax under the new EIT Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the new EIT Law and the Implementing Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered as a resident enterprise and will be subject to a PRC income tax on its global income. According to the Implementing Rules, “de facto management bodies” refer to “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” Accordingly, our holding company, VanceInfo Technologies Inc. , may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to a PRC income tax on our global income. The State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those invested in by PRC individuals, like our company, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect the State Administration of Taxation’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or controlled by or invested in by PRC individuals. We do not believe our holding company and our subsidiaries located outside of the PRC are PRC resident enterprises. However, if we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, such PRC income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Under the applicable PRC tax laws in effect before January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises such as our PRC subsidiary, VanceInfo Beijing, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the new EIT Law and the Implementing Rules which are effective as of January 1, 2008, however, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax if the foreign investors are considered as non-resident enterprises without any establishment or place within China or if the dividends payable have no connection with the establishment or place of the foreign investors within China, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The Cayman Islands, where our holding company is incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with China. VanceInfo Technologies Limited, or VanceInfo Hong Kong, our wholly owned subsidiary and the direct holder of a 100% equity interest in VanceInfo Tianjin and VanceInfo Shenzhen, is incorporated in Hong Kong. TP Hong Kong, our wholly owned subsidiary and the direct holder of a 100% equity interest in TP Shanghai, is incorporated in Hong Kong. Link Result, our wholly owned subsidiary and the direct holder of a 100% equity interest in A-IT Shanghai, is also incorporated in Hong Kong. Lifewood Data, our wholly owned subsidiary and the direct holder of a 100% equity interest in Lifewood Shenzhen and Lifewood Dongguan, is incorporated in Hong Kong. According to the Arrangement between Mainland China and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion in August 2006, or the Mainland and the Hong Kong Taxation Arrangement, dividends paid by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its direct holding company in Hong Kong will be subject to withholding tax at a rate of no more than 5% (if the foreign 22 Table of Contents investor owns directly at least 25% of the shares of the foreign-invested enterprise). Under the new EIT Law and the Implementing Rules, if each of VanceInfo Hong Kong, TP Hong Kong, Link Result or Lifewood Data is regarded as a resident enterprise, the dividends payable to VanceInfo Hong Kong from VanceInfo Tianjin and VanceInfo Shenzhen, dividends payable to TP Hong Kong from TP Shanghai, dividends payable to Link Result from A-IT Shanghai, and dividends payable to Lifewood Data from Lifewood Shenzhen and Lifewood Dongguan will be exempt from PRC income tax. If each of VanceInfo Hong Kong, TP Hong Kong, Link Result or Lifewood Data is regarded as a non-resident enterprise, subject to the confirmation of the local tax authorities, a 5% withholding tax will be imposed for any dividends payable to VanceInfo Hong Kong from VanceInfo Tianjin and VanceInfo Shenzhen, any dividends payable to TP Hong Kong from TP Shanghai, any dividends payable to Link Result from A-IT Shanghai, and any dividends payable to Lifewood Data from Lifewood Shenzhen and Lifewood Dongguan. Furthermore, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement on October 27, 2009, or Circular 601, which provides guidance for determining whether a resident of a contracting state is the “beneficial owner” of an item of income under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. According to Circular 601, a beneficial owner generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. An agent or conduit company will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits. The conduit company normally refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries in Hong Kong will not be deemed as conduit companies, or any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders whose jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China providing for a different withholding arrangement will be entitled to the benefits under the relevant withholding arrangement. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the new EIT Law and its Implementation Rules, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, then any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders or any gains realized by non-PRC shareholders or ADS holders from transfer of our shares or ADSs may be subject to PRC withholding tax. If we are required under the new EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on the above dividends or gains, the investment in our shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. The strengthened scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on our acquisition strategy. In order to strengthen its scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise, the State Administration of Taxation issued, on December 10, 2009, the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698, which became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. Under Circular 698, the PRC State Administration of Taxation is entitled to redefine the nature of an equity transfer where offshore vehicles are interposed for tax-avoidance purposes and without reasonable commercial purpose. Since we consistently pursue acquisitions as one of our growth strategies, and have conducted and may conduct acquisitions involving complex corporate structures, the PRC tax authorities may, at their discretion, adjust the capital gains or request us to submit additional documentation for their review in connection with any of our acquisitions, thus causing us to incur additional acquisition costs. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues or financing effectively. A majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. If our revenues denominated in Renminbi increase or expenses denominated in Renminbi decrease in the future, we may need to convert a portion of our revenues into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared, if any, in respect of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, VanceInfo Beijing is able to pay dividends in foreign currencies, without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take further measures in the future to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. 23 Table of Contents Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC subsidiaries under capital accounts continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of, or registration with, PRC governmental authorities. In particular, if our PRC subsidiaries borrow foreign currency loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with or approved by the SAFE, and if we finance them by means of additional capital contributions using, for instance, proceeds from a public offering, these capital contributions must be approved or registered by certain government authorities including the SAFE, the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterparts. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, and could affect our business and financial condition. On August 29, 2008, the SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or SAFE Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. SAFE Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company may only be used for purposes within the company’s business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise in its business scope. In addition, the SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-denominated registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from the SAFE, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the Foreign Exchange Administration Regulations. As a result, SAFE Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from a public offering to our PRC subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business in the PRC, and we may not be able to convert the net proceeds from a public offering into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. Our failure to obtain prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, of the listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, reputation and trading price of our ADSs. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the CSRC and the SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, includes provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for the purposes of overseas listing of equity interests in PRC companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by special purpose vehicles. The CSRC approval procedures require the filing of a number of documents with the CSRC and it would take several months to complete the approval process. The application of this new PRC regulation remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among leading PRC law firms regarding the scope of the applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. 24 Table of Contents We completed the initial listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange in December 2007. We did not seek CSRC approval in connection with our initial public offering. Our PRC counsel, Fangda Partners, has advised us that, based on their understanding of the current PRC laws and regulations as well as the procedures announced on September 21, 2006: • The CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule or interpretation concerning whether offerings like our public offerings are subject to this new procedure; • In spite of the above, given that we have completed our restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, this regulation does not require an application to be submitted to the CSRC for its approval of the issuance and sale of our ADSs and ordinary shares, or the listing and trading of our ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange; and • The issuance and sale of our ADSs and ordinary shares and the listing and trading of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange do not conflict with or violate this new PRC regulation. However, if the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC approval was required for our public offerings, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from our initial public offering into the PRC, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Also, if later the CSRC requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders and beneficial owners to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our subsidiary’s ability to increase its registered capital, distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. On October 21, 2005, the SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which became effective as of November 1, 2005. According to Notice 75, prior registration with the local SAFE branch is required for PRC residents to establish or to control an offshore company for the purposes of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise located in the PRC, or offshore special purpose company. An amendment to registration or filing with the local SAFE branch by such PRC resident is also required for the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise in the offshore special purpose company or overseas funds raised by such offshore company, or any other material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, Notice 75 applies retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore special purpose companies that have made onshore investments in the PRC in the past are also required to make relevant registration procedures with the local SAFE branch. To further clarify the implementation of Notice 75, the SAFE issued Notice 106 on May 29, 2007. Under Notice 106, PRC subsidiaries of an offshore special purpose company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore holding company’s shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If these shareholders or beneficial owners fail to comply, the PRC subsidiaries are required to report to the local SAFE branches. 25 Table of Contents We have urged our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings as required under Notice 75 and other related rules. Mr. Chris Shuning Chen, our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, Mr. Stanley Ying Zhou, our chief administrative officer, and Mr. Kevin Zhong Liu, our executive vice president, have made the requisite SAFE registration with respect to their investment and beneficial ownership in us. However, due to uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of Notice 75 with other approval or registration requirements, it remains unclear how Notice 75, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We will attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our shareholders and beneficial owners who are subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Notice 75 or other related rules. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders or beneficial owners to make any required registrations or comply with other requirements may subject such shareholders or beneficial owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also limit our ability to contribute additional capital into or provide loans to (including using the proceeds from our public offerings) our PRC subsidiary, VanceInfo Beijing, limit VanceInfo Beijing’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect us. A failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration of shares and share options held by our employees who are PRC citizens may subject such employees or us to fines and legal or administrative sanctions. Pursuant to the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange, or the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, promulgated on January 5, 2007 by SAFE and the Operating Procedures on Administration of Foreign Exchange for PRC Individuals’ Participation in Employee Share Ownership Plans and Employee Share Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or the Share Option Rules, issued by SAFE in March 2007, PRC citizens who are granted shares or share options by an overseas-listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required, through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company or other qualified PRC agents, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan. In addition, the overseas listed company or its PRC subsidiary or other qualified PRC agent is required to appoint an asset manager or administrator and a custodian bank, and open special foreign currency accounts to handle transactions relating to the share option or other share incentive plan. We and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens are subject to these rules, and we have applied to the local SAFE for the registration of our employee stock option plan. Failure to comply with such rules may subject us and the participants of our employee stock option plan who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from further granting options and restricted share units, also known as nonvested shares, under our employee stock option plan to our employees, which could adversely affect our business operations. New labor laws in the PRC may adversely affect our results of operations. As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately 10,300 employees in the PRC. On June 29, 2007, the PRC Government promulgated a new labour law, namely, the Labour Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labour Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. 26 Table of Contents The Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases costs for employers to dismiss employees under certain circumstances, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, non-fixed-term employment contracts, task-based employment, part-time employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee representative’s council, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and for overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, unless otherwise provided by law, an employer is obliged to sign a labor contract with a non-fixed term with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts or if the employee has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. Severance pay is required if a labor contract expires without renewal because the employer refuses to renew the labor contract or provides less favorable terms for renewal. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on the number of the employee’s working years at the employer. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their regular salaries for each waived vacation day. As a result of these new measures designed to enhance labor protection, our labor costs are expected to increase, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. In addition, the PRC government in the future may enact further labor-related legislation that increases our labor costs and restricts our operations. Risks Related to Our Shares and ADSs The trading price of our ADSs has been volatile and may continue to be volatile regardless of our operating results. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. During the period from December 12, 2007, the first day on which our ADSs were traded on the NYSE, until May 9, 2011, the trading price of our ADSs has ranged from US$4.20 to US$41.06 per ADS and the closing sale price on May 9, 2011 was US$31.21 per ADS. The market price for our ADSs may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other IT services companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new services, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • technological breakthroughs in the IT services industry; • potential litigation or administrative investigations; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies; • release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding ADSs or ordinary shares or sales of additional ADSs; and • general economic and market conditions or other developments affecting us, our industry, our markets or the global economy. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 27 Table of Contents Substantial future sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares, including ADSs or ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options, in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. If any existing shareholder or shareholders sell a substantial amount of ordinary shares, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. In addition, we may issue additional ordinary shares or ADSs for future acquisitions. If we pay for our future acquisitions in whole or in part with additionally issued ordinary shares or ADSs, your ownership interests in our company would be diluted and this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this report, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares evidenced by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee as their representative to exercise the voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote, and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will not offer those rights to ADS holders unless both the rights and the underlying securities to be distributed to ADS holders are either registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. In addition, we may not be able to take advantage of any exemptions from registration under the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, sell such undistributed rights to third parties in this situation. Accordingly, holders of our ADSs may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings as a result. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 28 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law, conduct most of our operations in China and most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and conduct most of our operations in China through our subsidiaries in China. Most of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. It may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Cayman Islands or Chinese court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Cayman Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. You would also find it difficult to enforce a U.S. court judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, in the United States, the Cayman Islands or China, against us or our officers and directors. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law, Cap. 22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against us or our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2010. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects. In addition, we must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. Because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, our PFIC status will depend in large part on the market price of the ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate significantly. In addition, changes in the composition of our income or assets may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. Holder. See Item 10, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 29 Table of Contents 