D. Risk factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the material risks described below, which we believe represent all the material risks related to an investment in our securities, together with the other information contained in this Annual Report, before making a decision to invest in our securities. This annual report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks described below. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business AGRL’s business, and hence our business, is entirely dependent upon the operations of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters, which have limited operating histories and are subject to many uncertainties and contingencies. AGRL’s sole source of revenue is the funds it receives from the profit interest agreements between its subsidiaries and AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters. The VIP gaming promoters receive their revenues from their promotion of VIP gaming rooms in casinos pursuant to gaming promoter agreements with the concessionaires and sub-concessionaires that operate the casinos. The terms of the gaming promoter agreements between AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters and the concessionaires or sub-concessionaires are usually short term and are tied to the term of the licenses of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters, which are subject to annual renewal. The renewal application consists of a good character certificate certifying as to the absense of criminal activity and a copy of the renewed contract with the concessionaires. Although we believe that renewal is likely, it cannot be assured. If a VIP gaming promoter’s license is not renewed, AGRL will lose the source of a significant part of its revenues. The operations of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are also subject to the significant business, economic, regulatory and competitive uncertainties and contingencies frequently encountered by businesses in competitive environments, many of which are beyond their control. Although AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters commenced operation in May 2006, there are presently only three operating VIP gaming rooms, which have limited operating histories. If AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are not able to manage these risks successfully, our business will be materially impacted. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are entirely dependent on their relatively limited number of VIP gaming rooms for all of their cash flow, which subjects AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters to greater risks than a gaming promoter with more VIP gaming rooms. Also, their revenues are subject to significant volatility. 7 Because AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ operations are presently conducted only at three VIP gaming rooms in Macau, they are subject to greater risks than a gaming promoter with more VIP gaming rooms at many different geographic locations due to the limited diversification of their business and sources of revenues. Specifically, they are more exposed to local economic and competitive conditions, changes in law, natural disasters, infectious disease outbreaks, and declines in the number of visitors to Macau. Any of these factors could adversely affect AGRL business, financial condition and results of operations. High-end gaming at VIP gaming rooms is more volatile than other forms of gaming. Also, large wins by one or more gaming patrons could also materially affect results in a given period. As a consequence, VIP room revenues during any specific period may not be indicative of revenues for a full year. The profitability of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ VIP gaming room operations depends on a variety of factors, some beyond their control. The gaming industry is characterized by an element of chance. In addition to the element of chance, theoretical win rates and, thus, the profitability of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters, are also affected by other factors, including gaming patrons’ skill and experience, the mix of games played, the financial resources of gaming patrons, the spread of table limits, the volume of bets placed by AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ gaming patrons and the amount of time gaming patrons spend on gambling. As a result, VIP gaming rooms’ actual win rates (upon which commissions payable to one of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are presently based) and rolling chip turnover (upon which commissions payable to the other of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are based) may differ greatly over short time periods, such as from quarter to quarter, and could cause their quarterly results to be volatile. These factors, alone or in combination, have the potential to negatively impact the VIP gaming promoters’ win rates and profitability. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters face intense competition in Macau and elsewhere in Asia. The VIP gaming room business in Macau is highly competitive and AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters expect to encounter increasing competition as casino operators complete and open new projects in the coming years. Currently, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ VIP gaming rooms are located at three of approximately thirty-three casinos of varying sizes in Macau. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters currently compete with approximately 170 gaming promoters in Macau. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters expect competition in Macau to increase in the near future as multiple additional hotel, casino and entertainment complex projects, which are currently under construction or development, open in 2011. These projects are expected to include internationally recognized hotels and significant additional gaming space. Any opening of additional casinos and hotels is likely to result in a significant increase in the number of VIP gaming rooms, intensifying competition in Macau’s VIP gaming room gaming business and among VIP gaming promoters. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ VIP gaming rooms also face current or prospective competition from casinos located elsewhere in Asia, such as Genting Highlands, a major gaming and resort destination located outside of Kuala Lampur, Malaysia, and casinos in the Philippines. Certain countries, including the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam and Cambodia, have already legalized casino gaming while others, such as Japan, Taiwan and Thailand, may legalize gaming in the future, which could further increase regional competition. Two recently-opened large-scale casinos in Singapore will add further competition in the region. Additional competition is provided from other major gaming centers located around the world, including Australia and Las Vegas, as well as from cruise ships in Asia (many based in Hong Kong) that offer gaming. 8 The profits assigned to the subsidiaries under the profit interest agreements depend on AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ gaming volumes and revenues. The profits to be assigned under the profit interest agreements depend on AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ gaming volumes and revenues. If AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters cease to be committed to the gaming promotion business or cease to be appointed as VIP gaming promoters by the concessionaires or sub-concessionaires, their gaming volumes and revenues would be affected. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business, financial condition and results of operations, and thereby the profit to be assigned to the AGRL subsidiaries, may be materially reduced. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business is dependent upon relationships with third parties. It must maintain satisfactory relationships with those parties and the third parties, in turn, must maintain the relationships that are required for their businesses. These third parties include: Casino Operators. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are dependent upon the casinos where they have operations. The concessionaires and sub-concessionaires that operate casinos are licensed by the government agencies having jurisdiction in the areas where they are located. The failure of a casino in which a VIP gaming promoter has operations, because of the failure of the casino operator to maintain its license or to continue in business due to financial failure or otherwise, would curtail or close the operation of the VIP gaming promoter in that casino, which could have a material adverse effect upon our business. Junket Agents and Collaborators. Virtually all of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ revenues are generated by gaming patrons introduced to them by junket agents and collaborators. With the rise in gaming in Macau, the competition for services provided by junket agents and collaborators has increased. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters anticipate that this competition will further intensify as additional casinos are developed and open in Macau in the near future. While they believe that they currently maintain good relationships with their existing junket agents and collaborators, there can be no assurance that these good relationships will continue in the future. If they are unable to maintain, or develop additional, successful relationships with reputable junket agents and collaborators or lose a significant number of their junket agents and collaborators to competitors, their ability to maintain or grow their revenues will be hampered and they will have to seek alternative ways of developing relationships with VIP gaming patrons. Junket agents and collaborators often provide credit for gaming patrons and the global financial crisis may have limited their financial resources. Therefore, their ability to offer credit to patrons may be affected, resulting in decreased gaming volume at their VIP gaming rooms. Further, credit already extended by the junket agents and collaborators to their gaming patrons may become increasingly difficult for them to collect. This inability to grant credit and collect amounts due can negatively affect the operations of the junket agents and collaborators at the VIP gaming rooms and, as a result, their operations of the VIP gaming promoters could also be adversely impacted. Gaming Patrons. If the junket agents and collaborators with whom AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters have relationships are unable to develop or maintain relationships with a sufficient number of VIP gaming patrons, the ability of the VIP gaming promoters to maintain or increase their revenues will be hampered. Management and Service Providers. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters currently obtain certain services from outsiders, including corporate support services, marketing services and personnel supply services. A termination of these services could cause disruption of their business and could increase future costs for such services. If, in the future, the service providers choose not to provide such services on terms acceptable to the VIP gaming promoters, the VIP gaming promoters will have to seek alternative means of securing comparable services, which may be on terms that are not as favorable as the current terms. 9 Key Personnel. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ ability to maintain their competitive position is dependent to a large degree on the efforts, skills and continued service of Mr. Lam Man Pou and other key management and operating personnel such as Mr. Vong Hon Kun. The loss of key management and operating personnel would likely have a material adverse effect on AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business since it is the individuals who market the VIP gaming rooms that they promote to patrons. Therefore, if such persons, who are under no direct contractual obligation to continue performing such services for the VIP gaming promoters, were to no longer perform such services for any reason, the VIP gaming promoters would generate significantly less revenue than they currently generate. AGRL’s success also depends upon its ability to attract, hire and retain qualified operating, marketing, financial and technical personnel in the future. Given the intense competition for qualified management personnel in the industry, there can be no assurance that AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters will be able to continue to hire or retain the required personnel. If AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters lose the services of Mr. Lam, Mr. Vong or other key personnel, or if such persons do not devote sufficient attention to their operations for any other reason, the business of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters may be significantly impaired. Employees. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business success depends in large part on their ability, and the ability of their service providers, to attract, train, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified and skilled employees to run their operations. Macau has a relatively limited labor pool for existing gaming operations at AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ VIP gaming rooms as well as for the operation of future projects and the ability of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters and their service providers to seek employees from other countries to staff operations is restricted by labor quota restrictions imposed by the Macau government. In addition, many employees at the VIP gaming rooms are required to possess certain gaming-related skills for which substantial training and experience are needed. Given the limited pool of experienced gaming and other personnel currently available in Macau as well as the large number of new casino resort developments and non-casino businesses currently underway in Macau, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters and their service providers will face significant competition in the recruitment of the best qualified employees and cannot assure you that they will be able to successfully compete for the limited supply of qualified gaming and other personnel and to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees for their Macau operations. Increasing competition for a limited number of qualified employees could require AGRL and its service providers to raise the salaries of current employees or to pay higher wages to attract new employees, which could cause labor costs to increase. If the VIP gaming promoters and their service providers are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, or if they encounter a significant increase in labor costs due to salary increases, the ability of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters to compete effectively with the other gaming promoters, concessionaires or sub-concessionaires would be hampered. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. 10 We and our independent registered public accounting firm, in connection with the audit of the consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, have identified the following material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting: the ability of the Company to record transactions and provide disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remediate these deficiencies, such as hiring a consulting firm to assist us with U.S. GAAP compliance. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the control deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to address any control deficiency could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares, may be negatively impacted by a failure to accurately report financial results. Prior to the acquisition, we had no business operations and AGRL had not operated as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations incident to continuing to be a public company will be expensive and time consuming and we may not have adequate staff to do so, which has resulted in a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Prior to the acquisition, each of AGRL, as a private company, and ourselves, as a company without business operations, had maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, we are required to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations have required and will require significant management time, place significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and have increased our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs. We will also need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. This has led to our having a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with U.S. GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2010. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters failed to maintain effective policies and systems of internal controls, which is a material weakness in our internal control in financial reporting in accordance with U.S. GAAP which could result in their being unable to accurately report their financial results or detect and prevent fraud and criminality. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters expect that they will have to dedicate a significant amount of management, operational and financial resources to enhance and maintain their internal controls in the future. This will increase their administrative and other operating expenses. Although they review their internal control policies and procedures on an ongoing or material weakness basis, we cannot assure you that they will be able to successfully enhance and maintain their internal controls, which may result in our having a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. Any deficiency in internal controls could adversely affect management’s ability to monitor, evaluate and manage their business and operations, or lead to substantial business or operational risk or inaccurate financial reporting. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are also subject to the risk that they may have a material weakness regarding their ability to prepare financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 11 Money Laundering and Corruption. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters and their casino operators have implemented anti-money laundering policies in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in Macau. However, we cannot assure you that such policies will be effective to prevent their VIP gaming room operations from being exploited for money laundering purposes. Any incidents of money laundering, accusations of money laundering or regulatory investigations into possible money laundering activities involving them, the casino operators, the casino operators’ employees, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ employees, their services providers, their junket agents and collaborators or their gaming patrons could harm their reputation, relationship with their casino operators and the gaming regulators, business, cash flows, financial condition, prospects and results of operations. Any serious incident of money laundering or regulatory investigation into money laundering activities could also cause a revocation or suspension of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ licenses and termination of agreements with their casino operators. We are not aware of any cases of corruption occurring in Macau gaming rooms in recent years. Counterfeiting and Cheating. All gaming activities at the VIP gaming room table games are conducted exclusively with gaming chips which, like real currency, are subject to the risk of alteration and counterfeiting. Although the casino operators incorporate a variety of security and anti-counterfeit features to detect altered or counterfeit gaming chips, unauthorized parties may try to copy the gaming chips and introduce, use and cash in altered or counterfeit gaming chips in the gaming areas. Any negative publicity arising from such incidents could also tarnish AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ reputation and may result in a decline in their business, financial condition and results of operation. Thus far, no counterfeit or altered chips have been detected in AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ VIP gaming rooms and we are not aware of counterfeiting occurring in any Macau VIP gaming room. Although the casino operators have in place surveillance and security systems designed to detect cheating at the casinos, those systems may not be able to detect all such cheating in time or at all. There is also a possibility that gaming patrons may seek to cheat at their VIP gaming room casino games, particularly if gaming patrons collude with the casino operators’ employees. In addition, their junket agents or other persons could, without their knowledge, enter into betting arrangements with their gaming patrons on the outcomes of their VIP gaming room games of chance, thus depriving them of revenues. Failure to discover such schemes in a timely manner could result in losses in VIP room gaming operations where the VIP gaming promoter shares in losses with the concessionaire or sub-concessionaire. In addition, negative publicity related to such schemes could harm AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ reputation, thereby adversely affecting their business, cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Integrity. The reputation and integrity of the parties with whom AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters engage in business activities, in particular the junket agents and collaborators with whom they deal, are important to AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ own reputation and ability to continue to operate in compliance with their licenses, Macau gaming laws and the Republic of Korea laws. While they endeavor, through contractual protections and otherwise, to ensure that their junket agents and collaborators comply with the high standards of probity and integrity required by Macau gaming laws and the Republic of Korea laws, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters cannot assure you that the junket agents and collaborators will always maintain these high standards. In addition, if AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters enter into a business relationship with a junket agent or collaborator whose probity was in doubt, this may be considered by regulators or investors to reflect negatively on AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ own probity. If any of their junket agents or collaborators violates the Macau gaming laws or the Republic of Korea laws, the Macau government or the Republic of Korea government may, in its discretion, take enforcement action against AGRL’s VIP gaming promoter, the junket agent, the collaborator or each concurrently and they may be sanctioned and their reputation harmed. We are not aware of the government taking action against VIP gaming room promoters relating to the activities of agents or collaborators in recent years. If our goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, then our profits and shareholder equity may be significantly reduced. Because we have acquired a significant number of companies, goodwill and other intangible assets represent a substantial portion of our assets. As of December 31, 2010, our goodwill was $15,008,424 and other intangible assets were $60,110,307, together comprising approximately 88% of our shareholders’ equity balance. We will perform a goodwill and intangible asset impairment test for potential impairment at least on an annual basis. This process requires us to make significant judgments and estimates, including assumptions about our strategic plans with regard to our operations, as well as the interpretation of current economic indicators and market valuations. To the extent economic conditions that would affect the future operations of our reporting units change, our goodwill and other intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired and an impairment charge could result in a significant reduction in our shareholders’ equity. 12 AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters may require new or additional debt or equity financing to expand their business and fund future projects but may not be able to obtain such financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Apart from equity financing, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters have financed their operations primarily through borrowings from their shareholders as well as cash generated from their operations. They may require new or additional debt or equity financing in the future to expand their business and fund future projects. Their ability to obtain new or additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond their control, including their financial performance, conditions of the U.S., Hong Kong, Macau and other capital markets in which they may seek to raise funds, credit availability, interest rates, the conditions of the economy in general, other gaming companies that may also seek funding, and investors’ and lenders’ perceptions of, and demand for, debt and equity securities of gaming companies. As a result, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters cannot assure you that they will be able to access capital from external sources on satisfactory terms and conditions, or at all. If they are unable to obtain new or additional financing, they may not be able to expand their business as anticipated or to fund future projects, and their business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States public companies from engaging in bribery of or other prohibited payments to foreign officials to obtain or retain business. We have adopted a Code of Ethics which applies to our directors, officers and employees. While we take precautions to educate our directors, officers and employees about the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, our directors, officers and employees may engage in such conduct without our knowledge, for which we might be held responsible. If that were to occur, we could suffer penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. AGRL is subject to junket agent and collaborator credit risk. Prior to the acquisition of AGRL by AERL, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters did not extend credit to junket agents and collaborators although such credit was extended personally by certain present members of our management team. However, in order to attract the most desirable gaming patrons and retain the services of key junket agents and collaborators, the VIP gaming promoters are currently extending credit to junket agents and collaborators, potentially exposing themselves and, hence, AGRL to substantial collaborator and junket agent credit risk. The average loan amount is $300,000, with a typical duration of 15 – 30 days. Historically, there have been no defaults. Credit extended through junket agents and collaborators in Macau is typically unsecured and the collectibility of receivables from junket agents and collaborators could be negatively affected by economic trends or conditions in the countries where they reside. Additionally, we may not have access to a forum in which we will be able to collect receivables because, among other reasons, courts of many jurisdictions do not enforce gaming debts and we may encounter forums that will refuse to enforce such debts. Our inability to collect gaming debts could have a significant negative impact on our operating results. Although certain members of our management team guarantee these extensions of credit, it is also possible that such persons would be unable to honor their guarantees in a timely fashion or at all. The members of our management team do not currently make personal loans to or through junket agents and collaborators. In addition, while regulated gaming debts are generally enforceable in Macau, other jurisdictions may determine that direct or indirect enforcement of gaming debts is against public policy. Extensions of credit to junket agents and collaborators may be made with limited information or credit analysis and are often based primarily on historical gaming chip purchases. The VIP gaming promoters’ limited operating history may put them at a disadvantage compared to its competitors when evaluating credit risk. Any inability to collect receivables from junket agents and collaborators could have a material adverse impact on AGRL’s business, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 13 Local taxation may increase and current tax exemptions may not be extended. AGRL benefits from the following: · AGRL is not subject to Hong Kong profits tax because all operations are performed outside Hong Kong and it is an investment holding company. All subsidiaries of AGRL are incorporated under the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (No. 16 of 2004) and exempted from payment of BVI taxes. · AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters in Macau are not subject to Macau Complimentary Tax, because pursuant to the VIP room gaming promoter agreements with the casino operators, the gaming revenue is received net of taxes collected by the Macau government paid directly by the casino operator on a monthly basis. No provision for Macau Complimentary Tax has been made. As a VIP room gaming promoter, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters are subject to a tax on the amount of non-negotiable chips played by their gaming patrons in the VIP gaming rooms (“rolling chip turnover”), which is referred to as a “rolling tax”. The rolling tax is deducted and paid by the casino operator on a monthly basis. The rate of rolling tax is 0.01% on the rolling chip turnover of the VIP gaming room and the rolling tax is deducted as a cost of revenues. · AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters in Jeju are incorporated under the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (No. 16 of 2004) and exempted from payment of BVI taxes. They are not subject to the Republic of Korea income tax because all promotion services are performed outside the Republic of Korea. The Republic of Korea Government levies a tax for contributions to the government’s “Tourism Promotion and Development Fund”/betting duty and/or tax on the gross win of the VIP gaming room (“Gaming Tax”), and the casino operator represents that the Gaming Tax rate currently does not exceed 10% per annum. Pursuant to the gaming promoter agreement with the casino operator, the gaming revenue is received net of taxes collected by the Republic of Korea government paid directly by the casino operator on a monthly basis. A loss of any of these exemptions or increases in tax rates or imposition of additional taxes will likely have a material adverse effect on AGRL’s earnings. Gaming promoters are jointly liable for the activities of their employees and collaborators within the casino premises of concessionaires and sub-concessionaires and could be held responsible if such persons violated the law. Gaming promoters are jointly liable for the activities of their employees and collaborators within the casino premises of concessionaires and sub-concessionaires and for their compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure by the gaming promoters to fulfill their major obligations under the Gaming Promoters Regulation may result in the following consequences: · the issue of a non-suitability report; · refusal to grant a new gaming promotion license or to renew an existing license; 14 · upon notice by the concessionaire or sub-concessionaire to the DICJ, suspension of the gaming promotion activities of gaming promoters; and · administrative liability arising out of violation of the Gaming Promoters Regulation without prejudice of contractual liability of the gaming promoter towards the concessionaire. Probable weakening in economic and credit market conditions may adversely affect tourism and the profitability of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business. There can be no assurance that the recent difficult financial conditions will improve or that government responses to these conditions will successfully address fundamental weakness in the markets, restore consumer confidence or increase market liquidity. Weakness in the global economy or in the economy of China, where a significant number of the gaming patrons reside and/or generate their income, may result in a reduction of the number of gaming patrons, including VIP gaming patrons, visiting the VIP gaming rooms or a reduction in the frequency of visits by these gaming patrons. In particular, the economies in China’s Guangdong province, where most visitors to Macau come from, are either export-driven or remain weak. Any reduction in demand for the gaming activities that AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters promote would reduce gaming revenues. The level of visitor arrivals to Macau from China and elsewhere may decline or travel to Macau may be disrupted by natural disasters, outbreaks of disease, terrorist attacks, security alerts, military conflicts or other factors. Macau’s subtropical climate and location on the South China Sea subject it to extreme weather conditions, including typhoons and heavy rainstorms. In 2010, there were 5 typhoons. Unfavorable weather conditions or other natural disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis or major typhoons could severely disrupt transportation to Macau and prevent gaming patrons from traveling to Macau. Similarly, outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as the H1N1, terrorist attacks, security alerts or military conflicts could have a negative impact on travel and leisure expenditures, including lodging, gaming and tourism. Any of these, or other factors such as riots or demonstrations, could have a negative impact on visitor arrivals to Macau from China and elsewhere. Consolidation of junket agents in recent years has led to increased bargaining power of junket agents, which could reduce profits for VIP gaming promoters. Over the past several years Macau has experienced a consolidation of junket agents. As a consequence, certain junket agents are recognizing enhanced leverage and bargaining power when negotiating terms with gaming promoters. Although there is some uncertainty as to whether such consolidation will become a trend in Macau, any consolidation in the market may provide junket agents with significant negotiating leverage, which could result in negative changes in their terms with the junket agents, including higher commissions, the loss of business to a competitor or the loss of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ exclusive relationships with their junket agents. While AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters have not had to adjust their compensation arrangements with junket agents thus far, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters understand that there have been recent instances of increased commission rates paid by other gaming promoters to junket agents in the Macau market. If AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters need to increase junket agent commission rates, their profits would be reduced. If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and/or defend the matter, which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a complete loss of your investment in us. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China have been the subject of intense scrutiny by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies. Much of the scrutiny has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial reporting and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed China-based companies that have been the subject of such scrutiny has sharply decreased in value. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and/or SEC enforcement actions that are conducting internal and/or external investigations into the allegations. If we become the subject of any such scrutiny, whether any allegations are true or not, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. Such investigations or allegations will be costly and time-consuming and distract our management from our business plan. If such allegations were proven to be true, our company and business operations would be severely damaged and your investment in our shares could become worthless. 15 Risks Relating to the Gaming Industry in Macau Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau and the gaming and licensing authorities may exercise significant control over AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ operations. Gaming is a highly regulated industry in Macau. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ operations are contingent upon their maintaining all regulatory licenses, permits, approvals, registrations, findings of suitability, orders and authorizations pursuant to Macau law. In addition, the casinos’ activities in Macau are subject to administrative review and approval by various agencies of the Macau government, including the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau (“DICJ”), Health Department, Labor Bureau, Public Works Bureau, Fire Department, Financial Services Bureau (including the Tax Department), Macau Monetary Authority, Financial Intelligence Bureau and Macau Government Tourism Office. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters cannot assure you that the casino operators and they will be able to obtain all necessary approvals and licenses, and the their failure to do so may materially affect their business and operations. Macau law permits redress to the courts with respect to administrative actions; such redress is, however, largely untested in relation to gaming regulatory issues. Current laws, such as licensing requirements, tax rates and other regulatory obligations, could change or become more stringent, resulting in additional regulations being imposed upon the gaming operations or an increase in competition in the gaming industry. For example, in September 2009, the Macau government set a cap on commission payments to gaming promoters of 1.25% of net rolling chips. This policy, which is being enforced as of December 2009, may limit our ability to develop successful relationships with gaming agents and collaborators and attract rolling chip patrons. Any failure to comply with these regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities, fines and other penalties and may materially and adversely affect our gaming promotion license. The Macau government recently announced its intention to raise the minimum age required for the entrance in casinos in Macau from 18 to 21. It was further announced that this measure, when adopted, would allow casino employees to maintain their positions while in the process of reaching the minimum required age. Nevertheless, if implemented, this could adversely affect our ability and the ability of our consultants to engage sufficient staff for the operation of our projects. The Macau government also announced that the number of gaming tables operating in Macau should not exceed 5,500 by the end of 2012, which may adversely affect the future expansion of our business. There is limited precedent interpreting and applying the laws of Macau and regulations concerning gaming. These laws and regulations are complex and a court or administrative or regulatory body may in the future render an interpretation of these laws and regulations or issue new or modified regulations that differ from AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ interpretation, which could have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition and results of operations. Conducting business in Macau involves certain economic and political risks. Conducting business in Macau involves certain risks such as risks relating to changes in Macau’s and China’s political, economic and social conditions, changes in Macau governmental policies, changes in Macau laws or regulations or their interpretation, changes in exchange control regulations, potential restrictions on foreign investment and repatriation of capital, measures that may be introduced to control inflation, such as interest rate increases, and changes in the rates or method of taxation. In addition, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ operations in Macau are exposed to the risk of changes in laws and policies that govern operations of Macau-based companies. 16 Agreements for concessions and sub-concessions to operate casinos in Macau are for specific periods of time and might not be renewed upon their expiration. Also, the Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the concession or sub-concessions in certain circumstances. Because the VIP gaming promoters derive their rights from agreements with the concessionaires and sub-concessionaires, a termination of a license of a concessionaire or sub-concessionaire to operate a casino will cause a termination of the VIP gaming promoter’s business at that casino. The concession of Galaxy Casino, S.A. and sub-concession of Venetian Macau, S.A. expire on June 26, 2022 and the sub-concession of MGM Grand Paradise Limited expires on March 31, 2020, unless extended pursuant to certain provisions of Macau law. Upon expiration of these agreements, all casinos, gaming assets and equipment and ownership rights to the casino properties in Macau will revert to the Macau government without compensation to the casinos. Moreover, beginning on December 26, 2017, the fifteenth year of the concession of Galaxy Casino, S.A. and sub-concession of Venetian Macau, S.A., the Macau government may exercise its right to redeem the concession or sub-concession agreements by providing the concessionaires or sub-concessionaires with at least one-year prior written notice. Similarly, beginning in April 2009, the Macau government may exercise its right to redeem the sub-concession of MGM Grand Paradise Limited with at least one year prior written notice. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters cannot assure you that the concessionaires or sub-concessionaires will be able to renew or extend their concession or sub-concession agreements on terms favorable to them or at all. If the concession or sub-concession agreements are not renewed or extended upon their stated expiration date, or if the Macau government exercises its early redemption right, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters in Macau will cease to generate any revenue. The Macau government has the right to unilaterally terminate the concession or sub-concession agreements upon the occurrence of certain events of default. The concession and sub-concession agreements contain various general covenants and other provisions with which the concessionaires or sub-concessionaires are required to comply. These include the obligations to submit periodic information to the Macau government, operate casinos in a fair and honest manner and maintain certain levels of insurance. Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the concession or sub-concession agreements in a manner satisfactory to the Macau government could ultimately result in the termination of the concession or sub-concession agreements. The occurrence of any event of default may, and any termination of the concession or sub-concession agreements will, cause all of the casinos, gaming assets and equipment and ownership rights to the casino properties in Macau to be automatically transferred to the Macau government. If this occurs, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters will cease to generate any revenue from their operations. Since May 2008, China has imposed government restrictions on Chinese citizens traveling from mainland China to Macau. If China or other countries impose additional government restrictions on travel, the number of visitors to Macau could decline. AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters have increased the number of tables and intend to take part in the promotion of additional VIP gaming rooms, based, in part, on their expectation of future visitor arrivals in Macau, particularly from China. In 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, tourists from mainland China accounted for approximately 54.5%, 55.0%, 50.6%, 50.5% and 53.0%, respectively, of all visitors to Macau. If visitors from China and elsewhere fail to increase as anticipated or decrease further, AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters would not be as profitable as they currently are. Since May 2008, the Chinese government has imposed restrictions on travel to Macau and may impose further restrictions in the future. In May and July 2008, the Chinese government readjusted its visa policy toward Macau and limited the number of visits that some mainland Chinese citizens may make to Macau in a given time period. In September 2008, it was publicly announced that mainland Chinese citizens with only a Hong Kong visa and not a Macau visa could no longer enter Macau from Hong Kong. In addition, in May 2009, China also began to restrict the operation of “below-cost” tour groups involving low up-front payments and compulsory shopping. Due to the popularity of these tours with mainland Chinese citizens, the number of visitors to Macau declined. Further restrictions on travel from China or other countries to Macau or any increase in prices of tours to Macau as a result of new regulations on travel agencies or otherwise may reduce the number of visitors to Macau. 17 Macau’s infrastructure may limit the development of its gaming industry. According to data from the Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau of Macau, the year over year gaming revenue of Macau grew at 29% in 2003, 44% in 2004, 8% in 2005, 22% in 2006, 46% in 2007, 31% in 2008, 10% in 2009, and 57% in 2010. Accordingly, demands on the capacity of Macau’s transportation infrastructure have also increased. To improve Macau’s existing transportation infrastructure, the Macau government has announced a number of infrastructure projects to facilitate travel to and within Macau. These projects, which are in various stages of planning or development, include a further expansion of the Macau International Airport, construction of a light rail transit system, construction of two new tunnels linking the Macau peninsula and Taipa, construction of the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau bridge and improved pedestrian walkways and border crossings. However, these projects may not be approved or completed in a timely fashion or at all and, if completed, may not be able to alleviate the growing transportation demand associated with the rapid expansion of Macau’s gaming industry and the related recent increase in visitor levels to Macau. If Macau fails to adequately address the growing transportation demand, transportation infrastructure problems could limit the number of visitors arriving in Macau, which, in turn, could have a material and adverse effect on AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates may cause fluctuations in the value of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ investment in Macau. The vast majority of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ revenues are expressed in Hong Kong dollars, and a portion of their revenues are denominated in Patacas, the Macau currency. The Hong Kong dollar is linked to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate between these two currencies has remained relatively stable over the past several years. The Pataca, which is not a freely convertible currency, is linked to the Hong Kong dollar, and in many cases the two are used interchangeably in Macau. The exchange linkages of the Hong Kong dollar and Pataca, and the Hong Kong dollar and the U.S. dollar, are subject to potential changes due to, among other things, Chinese, Hong Kong and Macau governmental policies and international economic and political developments. In the event of unfavorable Hong Kong dollar or Pataca exchange rate changes as against the U.S. dollar, AGRL’s or AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ obligations that are denominated in U.S. dollars would increase in Hong Kong dollar and/or Pataca terms. Also, depreciation of the Hong Kong dollar or Pataca in relation to the U.S. dollar could adversely affect AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ ability to service debt. Risks Related to Our Business Structure and Securities As a result of our status as a foreign private issuer, the publicly disseminated information about us may be limited. In accordance with the rules applicable to foreign private issuers, we are exempt from certain requirements under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”) relating to the furnishing and content of proxy statements and certain periodic reports. As a result, the publicly disseminated information available to our shareholders and others may not be as extensive as would be required if we did not have such status. 18 AGRL is a holding company and its ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the earnings of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters and distributions by its subsidiaries. AGRL is a holding company incorporated under the laws of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. All of AGRL’s business operations are conducted through AGRL’s subsidiaries and its VIP gaming promoters. They are currently engaged in the promotion of three major VIP gaming rooms and are entirely dependent upon their VIP gaming rooms for all of their cash flow. AGRL’s ability to pay dividends is dependent upon the earnings of AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters and the distributions of funds to AGRL by its subsidiaries, primarily in the form of dividends. The ability of AGRL’s subsidiaries to make distributions to AGRL depends upon, among other things, the profits interest assigned to them. AGRL’s Hong Kong and BVI legal advisors have confirmed that, there are currently no withholding tax for dividends in Hong Kong or the BVI. Other factors such as cash flow conditions, restrictions on distributions contained in their subsidiaries’ articles of association, withholding tax and other arrangements will also affect AGRL’s subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions to it. These restrictions could reduce the amount of distributions that AGRL will receive from its subsidiaries, which in turn would restrict AGRL’s ability to fund operations and pay dividends on the shares to us, as its parent company. Because we have no present plans to pay dividends on our ordinary shares, shareholders will benefit from an investment in our ordinary shares only if the shares appreciate in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deems relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, until such time as our board of directors may declare dividends, realization of a gain on shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our ordinary shares. There is no guarantee our ordinary shares will appreciate in value. As our subsidiaries are located outside of the United States, we will be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. In addition, the laws applicable to AGRL will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. Because AGRL is a Hong Kong company that operates through subsidiaries and VIP gaming promotions in Macau and the Republic of Korea, we are subject to special considerations or risks associated with companies operating outside of the United States, including some or all of the following: · rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; · tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; · currency fluctuations and exchange controls; · challenges in collecting accounts receivable; 19 · cultural and language differences; and · employment regulations. If we are unable to adequately address these additional risks, our operations might suffer. In addition, the laws of Hong Kong, Macau or the Republic of Korea will likely govern almost all of the material agreements relating to our operations. We cannot assure you that AGRL will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in such jurisdictions. The systems of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdictions may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Also, substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States and most of our officers and directors reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under U.S. federal securities laws. If our outstanding unit purchase option (and the warrants included in the unit purchase option) are exercised, the underlying ordinary shares will be eligible for future resale in the public market. “Market overhang” from the warrants results in dilution and could reduce the market price of the ordinary shares. Similarly, the registration of the Founder’s Shares and the shares issued in connection with the acquisition of AGRL will increase the number of shares that will be available for resale in the public market. Up to 1,440,000 ordinary shares are issuable upon exercise of the unit purchase option granted to the representative of the underwriters of our IPO and the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants included in such option. If such warrants and unit purchase option are exercised, a substantial number of additional shares of our ordinary shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, which may reduce the market price. Further, the registration of the Founder’ Shares and the 10,350,000 ordinary shares issued in connection with our acquisition of AGRL, the 4,210,000 ordinary shares that will be issued to Spring Fortune Investment Ltd. (“Spring Fortune”) and its designees upon filing by us of this Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2010 and the 12,050,000 shares that will be issued to Spring Fortune as a result of the achievement of 2010 incentive targets, the 6,206,000 shares that may be issued to Spring Fortune and its designees in the future upon achievement by AGRL of the incentive targets, will increase the number of shares available for resale and could have an adverse effect upon the market price of the ordinary shares. Affiliates of Spring Fortune currently own approximately 43.2% of the issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Company, and the interests of Spring Fortune and its affiliates could increase as a result of the issuance of additional shares to Spring Fortune giving the affiliates of Spring Fortune the ability to substantially control our operations. In connection with the Company’s acquisition of AGRL, on Febuary 2, 2010, 9,729,000 shares were issued to Spring Fortune and an aggregate of 621,000 ordinary shares were issued to consultants of Spring Fortune who are not affiliates of Spring Fortune. On May 13, 2010, Spring Fortune distributed all of the 9,729,000 ordinary shares to its shareholder and its shareholder’s designees, all of which are affiliates of Spring Fortune. Therefore, affiliates of Spring Fortune are currently the holders of 9,729,000 ordinary shares of the Company, or approximately 43.2% of the outstanding ordinary shares of the Company, giving the affiliates of Spring Fortune the ability to substantially control our operations. 20 For example, such a block of securities effectively insures that the affiliates of Spring Fortune have the ability to elect our directors. Of the additional 4,210,000 shares issuable upon the filing by us of this Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2010, it is currently anticipated that Spring Fortune will be issued 3,957,400 of such ordinary shares, which it will distribute to its shareholder and its shareholder’s designees, and non-affiliate consultants of Spring Fortune will be issued an aggregate of 252,600 of such ordinary shares. In addition, the 2010 incentive targets were achieved, and Spring Fortune will be issued an additional 12,050,000 ordinary shares. After this issuance, Spring Fortune and/or its affiliates would be the holders of 25,736,400 ordinary shares, or approximately 66.8% of the outstanding ordinary shares of the Company. If all of the 6,206,000 additional incentive shares are issued, Spring Fortune and its affiliates will be the holders of 31,942,400 ordinary shares, or approximately 71.4% of the outstanding ordinary shares of the Company (assuming no other ordinary shares are issued). The financial information of AGRL and AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters included in this Annual Report is not necessarily indicative of our future performance. The financial information of AGRL and AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters included in this Annual Report is not indicative of future financial results. The results of future periods are likely to be materially different as a result of: · the additional costs associated with being a public company; and · the pace of growth of AGRL’s and AGRL’s VIP gaming promoters’ business in the future, which is likely to differ from the historical growth reflected in their financial information. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this Annual Report captioned “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—General” under Item 10.E.) of our ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the composition (and estimated values) of the assets and the nature of the income of us and our subsidiaries during our 2010 taxable year, we do not believe that we will be treated as a PFIC for such year. However, because we have not performed a definitive analysis as to our PFIC status for our 2010 taxable year, there can be no assurance in respect to our PFIC status for our 2010 taxable year. There also can be no assurance in respect to our status as a PFIC for our current (2011) taxable year or any future taxable year. U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares are urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. See the discussion in the section of this Annual Report under Item 10.E entitled “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 21 The Macau government may decide that the practice of our promoters to issue credits to gaming patrons is in violation of the Gaming Credit Law. Macau Law No. 5/2004, enacted on June 14, 2004 (the “Gaming Credit Law”) governs the granting of gaming credits in the MSAR, and forbids the assignment or transfer in any form of the power to grant gaming credits. For the past 20 years, it has been customary practice in Macau that casinos issue credits to VIP gaming promoters in the form of nonnegotiable chips that can only be used by patrons in that gaming promoter’s VIP gaming room. The chips may not be redeemed for cash or exchanged for negotiable chips or other goods or services. The VIP gaming promoters then issue such credits, or their own credits, to gaming patrons either directly or through junket agents and collaborators who in turn extend the credits to patrons. The junket agents and collaborators act as a customer representative between the VIP gaming promoters and the patrons, and are representatives of the patrons. Therefore, the credits extended by VIP gaming promoters to junket agents and collaborators are actually credits issued to gaming patrons under the Gaming Credit Laws. However, if the Macau government in the future imposes a law governing agents in extending credits to gaming patrons, then we will be required to change our operations to comply with such law, which may result in a decrease in revenue. 