D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves risk. The discussion of risks related to our business contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F comprises material risks of which we are aware. If any of the events or developments described actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. The discussion of risks related to our business contained in this Annual Report on Form 20-F also includes forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 20-F. Risks Relating to our Business Competition may adversely affect us. We believe we are the market leader in an underserved market. New competition may reduce our growth prospects or level of profitability. Competitors may attempt to copy or replicate our business model. This could have an adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty obtaining external financing to implement our organic growth strategy. The primary means of growing our business is through leasing more commercial vehicles. This typically requires us to raise additional external financing. If we are unable to raise external financing it could limit our ability to grow our business. Our growth may be limited and we may incur additional expenses if we are unable to successfully introduce new products and services. We may pursue business opportunities that are complementary to and even unrelated to our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business. If we are unable to successfully capitalize on these new business opportunities and integrate them into our current operations, our growth may be limited and we may incur expenses trying to pursue these opportunities that we are not subsequently able to recoup. Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. The limited operating history our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business makes evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We commenced our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business in March 2008. As of December 31, 2014 we had a total of 555 centers (during the course of our operations we closed 5 underperforming centers during fiscal 2014). As of March 31, 2015, the number of commercial vehicle financing and service centers remained unchanged at 555 centers. We began our office leasing business in July 2013. In November 2014, we launched K-Lend and K-Pay, which provide short-term financing for businesses and an electronic payment platform for participants in the transportation industry, respectively. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history, which may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies, including our potential inability to: · achieve and maintain our profitability and margins; · acquire and retain customers; 6 · attract, train and retain qualified personnel; · maintain adequate control over our costs and expenses; · keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; or · respond to competitive and changing market conditions. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the above risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise harm our results of operations. In the normal course of business, we collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information. Despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party service providers, could be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events. Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, whether by us or by third-party service providers, could damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our business or otherwise harm our results of operations. Store closings result in unexpected costs that could result in write downs and expenses relating to the closings. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we may close certain underperforming stores, generally based on considerations of store profitability, competition, strategic factors and other considerations. Closing a store could subject us to costs, including the write-down of leasehold improvements, equipment, furniture and fixtures. In addition, we could remain liable for future lease obligations. The loss of any key members of the management team may impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts with customers or otherwise manage our business effectively. Our success depends, in part, on the continued contributions of our senior management. In particular, Mr. Yong Hui Li, our Chief Executive Officer, has been appointed by the Board of Directors to oversee and supervise the strategic direction and overall performance of AutoChina. AutoChina relies on its senior management to manage its business successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintained with our customers contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations, which is important to the direct selling strategy that we adopt. Employment contracts entered into between us and our senior management cannot prevent our senior management from terminating their employment, and the death, disability or resignation of Mr. Yong Hui Li or any other member of our senior management team may impair our ability to maintain business growth and identify and develop new business opportunities or otherwise to manage our business effectively. We rely on our information technology, billing and credit control systems, and any problems with these systems could interrupt our operations, resulting in reduced cash flow. AutoChina’s business cannot be managed effectively without its integrated information technology system. Accordingly, we run various “real time” integrated information technology management systems for our financing business. In addition, sophisticated billing and credit control systems are critical to our ability to increase revenue streams, avoid revenue loss and potential credit problems, and bill customers in a proper and timely manner. If adequate billing and credit control systems and programs are unavailable, or if upgrades are delayed or not introduced in a timely manner, or if we are unable to integrate such systems and software programs into our billing and credit systems, we may experience delayed billing which may negatively affect our cash flow and the results of operations. 7 In case of a failure of our data storage system, we may lose critical operational or billing data or important email correspondence with our customers and suppliers. Any such data stored in the core data center may be lost if there is a lapse or failure of the disaster recovery system in backing up these data, or if the periodic offline backup is insufficient in frequency or scope, which may result in reduced cash flow and reduce revenues. Adverse economic conditions in Shijiazhuang, China that negatively impact the demand for office space may result in lower occupancy and rental rates for our office leasing business, which would adversely affect its results of operations. Generally speaking, economic growth and employment levels in a local market are important factors in determining how successful a local office leasing business is. Since we only lease office space in one building that is located in Shijiazhuang, China, the economic conditions of this city are likely to be important factors in determining the occupancy levels and rental rates that our office leasing business is able to achieve. Therefore, any deterioration in the economic conditions of Shijiazhuang may adversely affect the results of operations of our office leasing business. We face considerable competition in the leasing market and may be unable to renew existing leases or re-let space on terms similar to the existing leases, or we may spend significant capital in our efforts to renew and re-let space, which may adversely affect our results of operations. In addition to seeking to increase our average occupancy by leasing current vacant space, we also concentrate our leasing efforts on renewing existing leases. Because we compete with a number of other developers, owners and operators of office and office-oriented, mixed-use properties, we may be unable to renew leases with our existing customers and, if our current customers do not renew their leases, we may be unable to re-let the space to new customers. To the extent that we are able to renew existing leases or re-let such space to new customers, heightened competition resulting from adverse market conditions may require us to utilize rent concessions and tenant improvements to a greater extent than we have historically. Further, changes in space utilization by our customers due to technology, economic conditions and business culture also affect the occupancy of our properties. As a result, customers may seek to downsize by leasing less space from us upon any renewal. If our competitors offer space at rental rates below current market rates or below the rental rates we currently charge our customers, we may lose existing and potential customers, and we may be pressured to reduce our rental rates below those we currently charge in order to retain customers upon expiration of their existing leases. Even if our customers renew their leases or we are able to re-let the space, the terms and other costs of renewal or re-letting, including the cost of required renovations, increased tenant improvement allowances, leasing commissions, reduced rental rates and other potential concessions, may be less favorable than the terms of our current leases and could require significant capital expenditures. From time to time, we may also agree to modify the terms of existing leases to incentivize customers to renew their leases. If we are unable to renew leases or re-let space in a reasonable time, or if our rental rates decline or our tenant improvement costs, leasing commissions or other costs increase, our financial condition and results of operations of the office leasing business could be materially adversely affected. Natural disasters and adverse weather events can disrupt our business, which may result in reduced cash flow and reduce revenues. AutoChina’s stores are located across a diverse geographic area of China, including the Anhui, Beijing, Chongqing, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Inner Mongolia, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Ningxia, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanghai, Shanxi, Sichuan, Tianjin, Yunnan and Zhejiang areas, in which actual or threatened natural disasters and severe weather events (such as severe snowstorms, earthquakes, fires and landslides) may disrupt store operations, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Although we have, subject to certain deductibles, limitations, and exclusions, substantial insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured or underinsured losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, we generally rely on third-party transportation operators and distributors for the delivery of vehicles from the manufacturer to our stores. Delivery may be disrupted for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, weather conditions or social unrest and strikes, which could lead to delayed or lost deliveries. For example, back in 2008 the southern regions of China experienced the most severe winter weather in nearly 50 years, causing, among other things, severe disruptions to all forms of transportation for several weeks in late January and early February 2008. This natural disaster also impacted the delivery of vehicles to stores. In addition, transportation conditions are often generally difficult in some of the regions where we sell automobiles and commercial vehicles. We currently do not have business interruption insurance to offset these potential losses, delays and risks, so a material interruption of our business operations could severely damage our business. 8 Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive governmental laws and regulations that require various approvals, licenses, authorizations, certificates, filings and permits to operate our business, and the violation or the loss of or failure to obtain or renew any or all of these approvals, licenses, authorizations, certificates, filings and permits could limit our ability to conduct our business or lead to sanctions including termination of operations. The automotive industry, including our facilities and operations, is subject to a wide range of central and local laws and regulations, such as those relating to retail installment sales, leasing, sales of financing and insurance, licensing, consumer protection, consumer privacy, escheatment, health and safety, wage-hour and other employment practices. Specifically with respect to the sale of financing at its stores, AutoChina is subject to various laws and regulations, the violation of which could subject it to lawsuits or governmental investigations and adverse publicity, in addition to administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions. The violation of other laws and regulations to which we are subject also can result in administrative, civil, or criminal sanctions against us, which may include a cease and desist order against the subject operations or even revocation or suspension of our license to operate the subject business, as well as significant fines and penalties. Our business could be affected by the promulgation of new laws and regulations introducing new requirements (such as new approvals, licenses, authorizations, certificates filings and/or permits). In accordance with the laws and regulations of the PRC, companies incorporated in the PRC will be required to pass an annual inspection conducted by the respective Administration of Industry and Commerce, or AIC, or an annual inspection jointly conducted by the respective AIC and other government authorities in order to retain valid approvals, license, authorizations, certificates, filings and permits for their operations. As the PRC’s legislative system evolves, it is also not uncommon for new laws and regulations to be promulgated and put into effect on short notice. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, pass these inspections, or the loss of or failure to renew our licenses, permits and certificates or any change in the government policies, could lead to temporary or permanent suspension of some of our business operations or the imposition of penalties on us, which could limit our ability to conduct our business. The peer-to-peer lending industry in China is largely unregulated. The introduction of future regulations could adversely affect our business operations. Although few regulations exist regarding the peer-to-peer lending industry in China, it is widely expected that new regulations specific to the industry will be introduced in the near future. Our peer-to-peer (“P2P”) lending business, K-Lend, could be adversely affected by the promulgation of new laws and regulations introducing new requirements (such as new approvals, licenses, authorizations, certificates filings and/or permits) specific to peer-to-peer lending companies. AutoChina’s ability to pay dividends and utilize cash resources of its subsidiaries is dependent upon the earnings of, and distributions by, AutoChina’s subsidiaries and jointly-controlled enterprises, which could result in AutoChina having little if any cash available for dividends. AutoChina is a holding company with substantially all of its business operations conducted through its subsidiaries. AutoChina paid a special cash dividend in the amount of $0.25 per ordinary share in February 2012. However, AutoChina’s ability to make future dividend payments depends upon the receipt of dividends or distributions from its subsidiaries. The ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends or other distributions may be subject to their earnings, financial position, cash requirements and availability, applicable laws and regulations and to restrictions on making payments to AutoChina contained in financing or other agreements. These restrictions could reduce the amount of dividends or other distributions that AutoChina receives from its subsidiaries, which could restrict its ability to fund its business operations and to pay dividends to its shareholders. AutoChina’s future declaration of dividends may or may not reflect its historical declarations of dividends and will be at the absolute discretion of the Board of Directors. 9 We may be subject to broad liabilities arising from environmental protection laws, which could result in significant expenses for us. We may be subject to broad liabilities arising out of contamination at our currently and formerly owned or operated facilities, at locations to which hazardous substances were transported from such facilities, and at such locations related to entities formerly affiliated with us. Although for some such liabilities we believe we are entitled to indemnification from other entities, we cannot assure you that such entities will view their obligations as we do, or will be able to satisfy them. If we are liable for environmental claims, we could be required to pay significant penalties. AutoChina’s commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing, and support business is capital intensive and its growth may require additional capital that may not be available on favorable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to continue our operations. We have, in the past, entered into loan agreements in order to raise additional capital. Our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing, and support business requires significant capital and although we believe that our current cash, other loan facilities and financing arrangement with affiliates will be sufficient to meet our present and reasonably anticipated cash needs, it may, in the future, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy to expand our store network or other investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our own financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. The sale of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. Our existing debt service obligations do not have any operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations, however, the incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by AutoChina to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to expand our business operations and could harm our overall business prospects. A significant portion of our working capital is funded through loans from affiliates of our Chairman and CEO, Mr. Yong Hui Li, that may be called by the lenders at any time, which could materially and adversely affect AutoChina’s liquidity and AutoChina’s ability to fund and expand its business. As of December 31, 2014, we had outstanding borrowings from affiliates of our Chairman and Chief Executive officer, Mr. Yong Hui Li, of approximately $25.6 million. These borrowings are interest bearing and for a perpetual term, but are callable at any time by the lenders. The lenders have not indicated to us if there is a maximum amount they are willing to lend to us, and there can be no assurance that they will lend us any more funds or that they will not call the loans for repayment. In the event such lenders determine to call these loans we will have to repay the loans from our cash reserves or financing provided by third-party financial institutions. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient cash reserves or that we could secure additional financing from third parties on favorable terms or at all. If cash reserves or suitable financing were not available, we would have to divert working capital from growing our commercial leasing business, and we would not be able to expand our commercial leasing business as quickly as expected. Current economic conditions may result in reduced revenues for AutoChina. AutoChina believes that many factors affect sales of new commercial vehicles’ gross profit margins in China and in our particular geographic markets, including the economy, inflation, recession or economic slowdown, consumer confidence, housing markets, fuel prices, credit availability, the level of manufacturers’ production capacity, interest rates, product quality, affordability and innovation, employment/unemployment rates, the number of consumers whose vehicle leases are expiring, and the length of consumer loans on existing vehicles. Changes in interest rates could significantly impact industry new vehicle sales and vehicle affordability, due to the direct relationship between interest rates and monthly loan payments, a critical factor for many vehicle buyers, and the impact interest rates can have on customers’ borrowing capacity and disposable income. The financial crisis that began in late 2008 and the slowdown of Chinese economy since late 2012 also significantly impacted commercial vehicle sales. If such a crisis occurred again, it is likely that commercial vehicle sales would be depressed again. 10 The overall demand for vehicles increased significantly in China from 2001 to 2014, with demand peaking in 2010. However, recently, certain adverse financial developments have impacted the financial markets. These developments include a general slowing of economic growth both in China and globally, volatility in equity securities markets, and volatility and tightening of liquidity in credit markets in China. If this economic downturn continues, our business, financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected, our cash position may further erode and we may be required to seek new financing, which may not be obtainable on acceptable terms or at all. We may also be required to reduce our capital expenditures, which in turn could hinder our ability to implement our business plan and to improve our productivity. We could incur unexpected expenses or liability if our vehicles are involved in major accidents. In situations where our trucks are involved in major accidents where the loss of property or life is unusually high, we may face liability if the insurance coverage is not sufficient to cover the losses. Since all the commercial vehicles we lease are insured when the lease is entered into, we are usually able to recover the remaining value of the lease from our insurance policy. However, there have been limited situations when lessees are involved in major accidents and third parties had liability claims for which the insurance coverage is not sufficient to cover the losses, in which case we may not recover the remaining value of the lease. In these situations AutoChina may also face liability depending on the outcome of litigation regarding the accident. The likelihood of these instances occurring is extremely difficult to predict or estimate. However, litigation and subsequent judgments against us from a major accident or accidents could adversely affect our profitability. Significant defaults by financing customers could significantly reduce our revenues. AutoChina’s commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business generates income from financing customers. We are acting as a primary lender to our customers and assuming the credit risk associated with the potential loan defaults of these customers. Although we do extensive pre-sale credit research on our customers and have a security interest in our leased vehicles, if customers fail to make payments when due, we may not be able to fully recover the outstanding fee and it could significantly reduce our revenues. In addition, overall resale values for commercial vehicles could fall and inhibit or prevent us from recovering the residual value of our defaulted vehicles. Expansion of our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business may be costly, time-consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully expand our business, our results of operations and prospects may not be as positive as anticipated. Our future success may be dependent in large part upon our ability to successfully expand our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business which we commenced in March 2008. Historically, the expansion of our store network has been a key driver of our growth. Going forward, we may not be able to expand our sales in our existing or new markets due to a variety of factors, including the risk that customers in some areas may be unfamiliar with our brand or the commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business model. Furthermore, we may fail to anticipate and address competitive conditions in the commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support market. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively expand this business. If our expansion efforts in existing and new markets are unsuccessful, our results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 11 If required financing for our commercial leasing business is not available or not available on acceptable terms, the commercial leasing business might not be able to expand as quickly as expected, reducing our operating results. Our ability to expand our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business is partly dependent on our ability to purchase commercial trucks for resale. Presently, such financing is arranged through financing arrangements with our affiliates, lease securitization and PRC commercial banks. The terms provided by our affiliates are on terms which are more favorable than we have historically been able to obtain from PRC commercial banks. However there can be no assurance that we can continue to receive such financing from our affiliates on such commercially favorable terms, or at all. If financing from our affiliates were not available, we would fund our commercial vehicle purchases from our own cash reserves or financing provided by third-party financial institutions and lease securitization. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient resources or be able to obtain adequate third party financing on as commercially favorable terms as that provided by our affiliates or at all. If suitable financing were not available, we would not be able to expand our commercial leasing business as quickly as expected. Fuel shortages and fluctuations in fuel prices may adversely affect the demand for commercial vehicles. Fuel prices are inherently volatile and have experienced a significant fluctuation from 2001 to 2014. Any surge in fuel prices will have an adverse effect on world economies and, in particular, on the world’s automobile and trucking industries. For example, in 2007, rising global oil prices and rising demand for fuel have led to fuel shortages in China. This is due in part to increased automobile ownership as well as government controls over fuel prices. If the PRC central government continues to control the price of domestic refined oil to stabilize the market and demand for fuel in China continues to increase in line with rising annual GDP, it is possible that further shortages will occur. If the cost of fuel in the China continues to increase, businesses may elect to use alternative means of shipping goods, and demand for commercial vehicles, particularly those with larger engine capacities, may decline. Excess supply in the PRC commercial vehicle market could reduce our profits and growth. Heavy truck sales in the PRC have been growing rapidly in recent years, and this growth has encouraged foreign industry participants to enter the market in China through import or partnership with domestic firms. This may result in an excess supply of commercial vehicles in the market, particularly in light of the recent economic slowdown in China and around the world, which in turn could adversely affect margins on our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business. AutoChina’s business is seasonal and an impairment of results of operations during certain portions of the year may have a disproportional effect on our results of operations for the year. AutoChina generally experiences lower volumes of commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support in the first and third calendar quarters of each year as compared to the second and fourth quarters. This seasonality is generally attributable to decreased commercial vehicle activity during a portion of the first quarter due to the annual Chinese New Year holiday as well as historically weak commercial vehicle sales during the summer. As a result, our revenues and operating income are typically lower in the first and third quarters and higher in the second and fourth quarters. Therefore, we generally realize a higher proportion of our revenue and operating profit during the second and fourth fiscal quarters. Other factors unrelated to seasonality, such as changes in economic condition, may exaggerate seasonality or cause counter-seasonal fluctuations in our revenues and operating income. If conditions arise that impair vehicle sales during the second and fourth fiscal quarters, the adverse effect on our revenues and operating profit for the year could be disproportionately large. Claims that the software products and information systems that we rely on are infringing on the intellectual property rights of others could increase our expenses or inhibit us from offering certain services. A number of entities, including some of our competitors, have sought, or may in the future obtain, patents and other intellectual property rights that cover or affect software products and other components of information systems that we rely on to operate our business. 12 While we are not aware of any claims that the software products and information systems that it relies upon are infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of third-party rights or to defend against claims of infringement. If a court determines that one or more of the software products or other components of information systems we use infringe on intellectual property owned by others or we agree to settle such a dispute, we may be liable for money damages. In addition, we may be required to cease using those products and components unless we obtain licenses from the owners of the intellectual property, redesigns those products and components in such a way as to avoid infringement or cease altogether the use of those products and components. Each of these alternatives could increase our expenses materially or impact the marketability of our services. Any litigation, regardless of the outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a third-party intellectual property owner might not allow us to use our intellectual property at any price, or on terms acceptable to it, which could compromise our competitive position. We may have difficulty adjusting our existing offerings to customers, including introducing new products and services, which could reduce our profits and growth. As we have done in the past, we plan to continue adjusting our existing offerings to customers and to introduce new products and services such as our insurance brokerage services business, K-Pay and K-Lend. Any inability to successfully modify our offerings or introduce new products and services that meet the demands of our customers could result in reduced profits and growth. Risks to AutoChina’s Shareholders Because AutoChina may not pay regular dividends on its ordinary shares, shareholders will generally benefit from an investment in AutoChina’s ordinary shares only if the shares appreciate in value. Although AutoChina declared and paid a special cash dividend in the amount of $0.25 per ordinary share in February 2012 to its shareholders, AutoChina has not declared any dividends since then and may not declare or pay any regular cash dividends on its ordinary shares in future. AutoChina currently intends to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of the business. As a result, AutoChina may not anticipate paying regular cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends, including a one-time special cash dividend, will be at the discretion of AutoChina’s Board of Directors and will depend on factors AutoChina’s Board of Directors deems relevant, including among others, AutoChina’s results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of AutoChina’s credit facilities and other financing arrangements. If no dividends are paid, realization of a gain on a shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of AutoChina’s ordinary shares. There is no guarantee that AutoChina’s ordinary shares will appreciate in value. Our ordinary shares have been delisted from the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) Capital Market and are now quoted on the over the counter market, which may limit the liquidity and price of its ordinary shares more than if the ordinary shares were quoted or listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On July 15, 2011, we received a written notification from the Nasdaq Stock Market stating that we are not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 5250(c)(1). The Nasdaq notification was issued due to our failure to file our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2011 with the SEC within the required time period. Nasdaq provided us until August 15, 2011 to submit a plan to regain compliance, and we submitted our plan to regain compliance on August 14, 2011. On September 8, 2011, we received a letter from Nasdaq stating that based on the review of public documents and the plan to regain compliance provided by us, Nasdaq’s staff determined that providing us until December 31, 2011 to file our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the period ended December 31, 2011 was not warranted, and that our securities would be delisted from Nasdaq on September 19, 2011, unless we appealed the determination. We appealed the staff determination regarding the delisting of our securities, and on October 4, 2011 our securities were suspended from trading pending the final determination of the appeal. On November 2, 2011 we received a letter from Nasdaq stating that, in addition to the Company not being in compliance with Listing Rule 5250(c)(1), Nasdaq determined that certain trading activity in the Company’s ordinary shares raised public interest concerns pursuant to Nasdaq Listing Rule 5101. On December 1, 2011, we attended an oral appeal hearing with Nasdaq. On January 18, 2012, we received the Nasdaq Hearings Panel’s decision to deny our appeal for continued listing on Nasdaq. We did not further appeal the Panel’s decision. As a result, our ordinary shares have been delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market and the liquidity and trading price of ordinary shares may be adversely affected. 13 On February 28, 2012, our ordinary shares began to be quoted on over the counter market, a FINRA-regulated inter-dealer automated quotation system. Quotation of AutoChina’s ordinary shares on the over the counter market limits the liquidity and price of its ordinary shares more than if the ordinary shares were quoted or listed on Nasdaq. Yong Hui Li, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AutoChina, is the beneficial owner of a substantial amount of AutoChina’s ordinary shares and Mr. Li may take actions with respect to such shares which are not consistent with the interests of the other shareholders. Yong Hui Li, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AutoChina, beneficially owns approximately 80.4% of the outstanding ordinary shares of AutoChina as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 20-F, assuming that there are no other changes to the number of ordinary shares outstanding. Mr. Li may take actions with respect to such shares without the approval of other shareholders and which are not consistent with the interests of the other shareholders, including the election of the directors and other corporate actions of AutoChina such as: · its merger with or into another company; · a sale of substantially all of its assets; and · amendments to its memorandum and articles of incorporation. The decisions of Mr. Li may conflict with AutoChina’s interests or the interests of AutoChina’s other shareholders. Risks Related to AutoChina’s Corporate Structure and Restrictions on its Industry Contractual arrangements in respect of certain companies in the PRC may be subject to challenge by the relevant governmental authorities and may affect our investment and control over these companies and their operations. According to Foreign Investment Industries Guidance Catalogue, which was introduced in 1995 and was later amended in 1997, 2002, 2004 and 2007, our motor vehicle distribution business was classified as “restricted,” and foreign enterprises were not allowed to own controlling equity stakes in the motor vehicle distribution where the distributor has established more than 30 stores and sells products of various brands from different suppliers. Because our wholly-owned subsidiary ACG is a Cayman Islands company and it holds the equity interests of its PRC subsidiaries indirectly through Fancy Think Limited, a Hong Kong company, our PRC subsidiaries are treated as foreign invested enterprises under PRC laws and regulations. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements, (the “Enterprise Agreements”), entered into with the Auto Kaiyuan Companies, Hebei Kaiyuan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. (“Hebei Kaiyuan”) and Hebei Shengrong Investment Co., Ltd. (“Hebei Shengrong Investment”, under which with Hebei Kaiyuan are collectively known as the “AKC Shareholders”). Pursuant to the Enterprise Agreements, we, through our wholly-owned subsidiary ACG, have exclusive rights to obtain the economic benefits and assume the business risks of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies from their shareholders, and has control of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies. The Auto Kaiyuan Companies are considered variable interest entities, and AutoChina is the primary beneficiary. ACG’s relationships with the Auto Kaiyuan Companies and the AKC Shareholders are governed by the Enterprise Agreements between Hebei Chuanglian Finance Leasing Co. Ltd. (“Chuanglian”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of ACG, and each of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies, which are the operating companies of ACG in the PRC. The Auto Kaiyuan Companies hold and their subsidiaries hold the relevant business licenses to carry out the business. Subject to the Real Rights Law of the PRC, the pledge of shares registered in the securities depository and clearing institution shall be established upon registration with the relevant securities depository and clearing institution and the pledge of other share rights shall be established upon registration with administrative department for industry and commerce. Therefore, an equity interest pledge, such as the ones granted pursuant to the Enterprise Agreements, without registration will be materially impaired. According to the Measure for Equity Pledge Registration with the Administrative Organs for Industry and Commerce, which took effect in 2008, the administration for industry and commerce has already begun accepting applications for pledge registrations. Failure to register the equity pledge may result in the pledge being unenforceable. The Company is in the process of registering the pledge of equity interest contemplated in the variable interest entity, or VIE documents. The Enterprise Agreements generally provide the following rights: 14 (i) the right to enjoy the economic benefits of these companies, to exercise management control over the operations of these companies, and to prevent leakages of assets and values to the registered owners of these companies; and (ii) the right to acquire, if and when permitted by PRC law, the equity interests in these companies at no consideration or for a nominal price. Pursuant to these Enterprise Agreements, we are able to consolidate the financial results of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies, which are accounted for as VIEs of us under the prevailing accounting principles. There can be no assurance that the relevant governmental authority will not challenge the validity of these contractual arrangements or that the governmental authorities in the PRC will not promulgate laws or regulations to invalidate such arrangements in the future. If AutoChina’s ownership structure, contractual arrangements and businesses, or its PRC subsidiaries and Auto Kaiyuan Companies, are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses of AutoChina’s PRC subsidiaries or Auto Kaiyuan Companies, which business and operating licenses are essential to the operation of AutoChina’s business; · levying fines; · confiscating AutoChina’s income or the income of its PRC subsidiaries or Auto Kaiyuan Companies; · shutting down our commercial vehicle sales, servicing, leasing and support business; · discontinuing or restricting our operations or the operations of AutoChina’s PRC subsidiaries or Auto Kaiyuan Companies; · imposing conditions or requirements with which AutoChina, ACG, AutoChina’s PRC subsidiaries or Auto Kaiyuan Companies may not be able to comply; · requiring AutoChina, AutoChina’s PRC subsidiaries or Auto Kaiyuan Companies to restructure their relevant ownership structure, operations or contractual arrangements; · restricting or prohibiting AutoChina’s use of the proceeds from AutoChina’s initial public offering to finance its business and operations in China; and · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to the business of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies. The Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, published a discussion draft of the proposed Foreign Investment Law on January 19, 2015 which would replace the three existing laws regulating foreign investment in China (namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sinoforeign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law) together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The draft Foreign Investment Law embodies an expected PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. The draft Foreign Investment Law, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the entire legal framework regulating the foreign investments in China and may also impact viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations to some extent. 15 Among other things, the draft Foreign Investment Law expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of "actual control" in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. As such, the jurisdiction of incorporation of an entity is not the ultimate determining factor as to whether or not it’s an FIE. The draft Foreign Investment Law specifically provides that entities established in China but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by the MOFCOM or its local branches, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens. In this connection, “control” is broadly defined in the draft law to cover, among others, having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE and its investment amount exceeds certain thresholds or its business operation falls within a “negative list”, to be separately issued by the State Counsel in the future, market entry clearance by the MOFCOM or its local braches would be required. However, until “The foreign investment law” is enacted, which may take some time, the Group’s current VIE contractual arrangement structure will not be affected. Due to the various necessary submission and approval procedures, the conversion of these contractual arrangements to a direct ownership structure is still in process, and the above-mentioned conversion would not adversely affect the tax payments and other financial matters of AutoChina and its subsidiaries. If before the completion of such conversion, any of these contractual arrangements is challenged by the governmental authorities, or the contracts for such arrangements are breached by the counterparties and we are unable to obtain a judgment to our favor to enforce our contractual rights, or if there is any change of the PRC laws or regulations to explicitly prohibit such arrangements, we may lose control over, and revenues from, these companies, which will materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. Such conversion may include various approvals from governmental authorities and submissions of related documents (e.g. proper land use rights certificates and/or tenancy agreements for buildings), therefore there can be no assurance that such approval may be obtained in due course. The shareholders of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies may have potential conflicts of interest with AutoChina, which may materially and adversely affect AutoChina’s business and financial condition. We, through our wholly-owned subsidiary ACG, have contractual arrangements with respect to operating the business with the Auto Kaiyuan Companies, and the shareholders of Auto Kaiyuan Companies are Hebei Kaiyuan and its parent company, Hebei Shengrong Investment, companies registered in the PRC and indirectly owned by our Chairman and CEO, Mr. Yong Hui Li. Although Auto Kaiyuan Companies, Hebei Kaiyuan and Hebei Shengrong Investment have given undertakings to act in the best interests of AutoChina, AutoChina cannot assure you that when conflicts arise, these individuals will act in AutoChina’s best interests or that conflicts will be resolved in AutoChina’s favor. Contractual arrangements that our wholly-owned subsidiary ACG has entered into through its subsidiaries with the Auto Kaiyuan Companies may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that AutoChina, ACG or the Auto Kaiyuan Companies owe additional taxes could substantially reduce AutoChina’s consolidated net income and the value of your investment. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. AutoChina could face adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements and transactions among its subsidiaries and the Auto Kaiyuan Companies do not represent an arm’s length price and adjust the income of AutoChina’s subsidiaries or that of the Auto Kaiyuan Companies in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by the Auto Kaiyuan Companies, which could in turn increase their respective tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on AutoChina’s affiliated entities for underpayment of taxes. AutoChina’s consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if its affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase or if it is found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. General Risks Relating to Conducting Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for automobiles and trucks and damage AutoChina’s business and prospects. 16 AutoChina conducts substantially all of its operations and generates all its sales in China. Accordingly, AutoChina’s business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher rate of inflation; · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · government control over the allocation of many resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on AutoChina. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. In the past 20 years, the PRC has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies measured in gross domestic product. However, in conjunction with recent slowdowns in economies of the United States and European Union, the growth rate in China has declined in recent quarters. Any further adverse change in the economic conditions or any adverse change in government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of consumer spending in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for automobiles and consequently have a material adverse effect on AutoChina’s business and prospects. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to AutoChina and its shareholders. Unlike common law systems, the PRC legal system is based on written statutes and decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. AutoChina’s PRC subsidiary, Chuanglian, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise, and will be subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. AutoChina’s PRC affiliated entities, the Auto Kaiyuan Companies, will be subject to laws and regulations governing the formation and conduct of domestic PRC companies. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, AutoChina may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that AutoChina enjoys either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection AutoChina enjoys than under more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce AutoChina’s contracts and intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect AutoChina’s business and operations. In addition, confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, AutoChina cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with respect to its commercial vehicle sales servicing, leasing and support business, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to AutoChina and other foreign investors, including you. 17 Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because substantially all of our revenues, expenditures and cash are denominated in Renminbi and we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollars terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments AutoChina makes in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium- to long-term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Under the PRC EIT Law, we, ACG, Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet, ACG’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, each may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of the PRC. Such classification could result in tax consequences to us, our non-PRC resident security holders and ACG, Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with its “de facto management bodies” located within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define “de facto management bodies” as a managing body that in practice exercises “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise; however, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our managing body as being located within China. Due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, the PRC tax authorities determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign (non-PRC) company on a case-by-case basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we, ACG, Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we, ACG, Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our, ACG’s, Fancy Think Limited’s and/or Heat Planet’s worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between “qualified resident enterprises” are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if we, ACG, Fancy Think Limited and Heat Planet are treated as PRC “resident enterprises,” all dividends from Chuanglian to us (through Fancy Think Limited and ACG) and dividends from Hebei Xuwei Trading Co., Ltd. (“Hebei Xuwei Trading”) to us (through Heat Planet and ACG) would be exempt from PRC tax. 18 If Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that Fancy Think Limited receives from Chuanglian and/or Heat Planet receives from Hebei Xuwei Trading (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) (i) may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, provided that Fancy Think Limited and Heat Planet owns more than 25% of the registered capital of Chuanglian and Hebei Xuwei Trading, respectively, continuously within 12 months immediately prior to obtaining such dividend from them, and the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income, or the PRC-Hong Kong Tax Treaty, were otherwise applicable, or (ii) if such treaty does not apply (i.e., because the PRC tax authorities may deem Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits), may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Similarly, if we or ACG were treated as a PRC “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, and Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet were treated as a PRC “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, then dividends that we or ACG receive from Fancy Think Limited and/or Heat Planet (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our shareholders. Finally, the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% PRC tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our investors that are non-resident enterprises so long as such non-resident enterprise investors do not have an establishment or place of business in China or, despite the existence of such establishment of place of business in China, the dividends we pay are not effectively connected with such establishment or place of business in China, to the extent that such dividends have their sources within the PRC. In such event, we may be required to withhold a 10% PRC tax on any dividends paid to our investors that are non-resident enterprises. Our investors that are non-resident enterprises also may be responsible for paying PRC tax at a rate of 10% on any gain realized from the sale or transfer of our ordinary shares or warrants in certain circumstances. We would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain. Moreover, the State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698, or Circular 698, on December 15, 2009 that reinforces the taxation of non-listed equity transfers by non-resident enterprises through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. According to Circular 698, where a foreign (non-PRC resident) investor who indirectly holds shares or warrants in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by selling the shares or warrants of the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days of the transfer. The tax authorities in charge will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the tax authorities determine that such transfer is abusing forms of business organization and a reasonable commercial purpose for the offshore holding company other than the avoidance of PRC income tax liability is lacking, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. A reasonable commercial purpose may be established when the overall international (including U.S.) offshore structure is set up to comply with the requirements of supervising authorities of international (including U.S.) capital markets. If the SAT’s challenge of a transfer is successful, it will deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We (or a foreign investor) may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we (or such foreign investor) should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such foreign investor’s investment in us). If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC resident security holder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such security holder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. For further information, see the discussion in the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F entitled “Taxation—PRC Taxation” below. 19 PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent AutoChina from making loans to our PRC subsidiaries and PRC affiliated entity or to make additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. AutoChina is a Cayman Islands holding company conducting its operations in China through its PRC subsidiaries and its PRC affiliated entities, the Auto Kaiyuan Companies. Any loans AutoChina makes to the PRC subsidiaries cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, or its local counterparts. Under applicable PRC law, the government authorities must approve a foreign-invested enterprise’s registered capital amount, which represents the total amount of capital contributions made by the shareholders that have registered with the registration authorities. In addition, the authorities must also approve the foreign-invested enterprise’s total investment, which represents the total statutory capitalization of the Company, equal to the Company’s registered capital plus the amount of loans it is permitted to borrow under the law. The ratio of registered capital to total investment cannot be lower than the minimum statutory requirement and the excess of the total investment over the registered capital represents the maximum amount of borrowings that a foreign invested enterprise is permitted to have under PRC law. AutoChina might have to make capital contributions to the PRC subsidiaries to maintain the statutory minimum registered capital and total investment ratio, and such capital contributions involve uncertainties of their own, as discussed below. Furthermore, even if AutoChina makes loans to its PRC subsidiaries that do not exceed their current maximum amount of borrowings, AutoChina will have to register each loan with SAFE or its local counterpart for the issuance of a registration certificate of foreign debts. In practice, it could be time-consuming to complete such SAFE registration process. Any loans AutoChina makes to a PRC affiliated entity, which is treated as a PRC domestic company rather than a foreign-invested enterprise under PRC law, are also subject to various PRC regulations and approvals. Under applicable PRC regulations, international commercial loans to PRC domestic companies are subject to various government approvals. AutoChina cannot assure you that it will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans by AutoChina to its PRC subsidiaries or PRC affiliated entities or with respect to future capital contributions by AutoChina to its PRC subsidiaries. If AutoChina fails to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, AutoChina’s ability to capitalize or otherwise fund its PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect its liquidity and its ability to fund and expand its business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain financing. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Restrictions on currency exchange imposed by the PRC government may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Under current PRC regulations, Renminbi may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions,” which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts, subject to a cap set by SAFE or its local counterpart, for use in payment of international current account transactions. However, conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, and of foreign currencies into Renminbi, for payments relating to “capital account transactions,” which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant PRC governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from the parent entity. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated entities to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. In August 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by foreign investment enterprises, or FIEs, of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 requires that Renminbi converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable government authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC unless specifically provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight over the flow and use of Renminbi funds converted from the foreign currency-dominated capital of a FIE. The use of such Renminbi may not be changed without approval from SAFE, and may not be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not yet been used. Violations of Circular 142 may result in severe penalties, including substantial fines as set forth in the SAFE rules. 20 You may experience difficulties enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on U.S. judgments against AutoChina, ACG, their subsidiaries and variable interest entities, officers, directors and shareholders, and others. We have appointed CT Corporation System located at 111 Eighth Avenue, 13/F, New York, New York 10011 as our agent to receive service of process with respect to any action brought against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York under the federal securities laws of the United States or of any state in the United States or any action brought against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York in the County of New York under the securities laws of the State of New York, and intend to abide by judgments entered by such courts in such actions. Notwithstanding, substantially all of AutoChina’s assets are located outside of the United States, and most of AutoChina’s current directors and executive officers reside outside of the United States. In addition, the PRC does not have treaties providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States or many other countries. As a result, recognition and enforcement in the PRC of these judgments in relation to any matter, including United States securities laws and the laws of the Cayman Islands, may be difficult or impossible. Furthermore, an original action may be brought in the PRC against AutoChina’s assets, its subsidiaries, officers, directors, shareholders and advisors only if the actions are not required to be arbitrated by PRC law and the facts alleged in the complaint give rise to a cause of action under PRC law. In connection with such an original action, a PRC court may award civil liabilities, including monetary damages. We may qualify as a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be treated as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (looking through certain 25% or more-owned corporate subsidiaries) is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes, without limitation, dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year (or portion thereof) that is included in the holding period of a U.S. Holder (as defined in the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F captioned “Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—General”) of our ordinary shares, the U.S. Holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. Based on the composition (and estimated values) of the assets and the nature of the income of us and our subsidiaries for our 2014 taxable year, we may be treated as a PFIC for our 2014 taxable year. However, since we have not performed a definitive analysis with respect to our PFIC status for our 2014 taxable year, there can be no assurance with respect to our status as a PFIC for such taxable year. There also can be no assurance with respect to our PFIC status for our current (2015) taxable year or any future taxable year. We urge U.S. Holders to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a more detailed explanation of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders, see the section of this Annual Report on Form 20-F captioned ‘‘Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Tax Consequences to U.S. Holders—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” ITEM 