Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In this section of the Form 10-K, we describe the risks we believe are most important for you to think about when you consider investing in, selling, or owning our stock. This information should be assessed along with the other information we provide you in this Form 10-K. Like most companies, our business involves risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or considered immaterial by us at this time and thus not listed below may result in adverse effects on our business. Risks Related to Our Business Recent global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. The severity of the current economic recession caused by the recent worldwide financial and credit market disruptions have reduced the availability of credit generally necessary to fund economic growth and activity, and there is not yet clear evidence to suggest that efforts undertaken by the various government entities to mitigate this recession will be successful. A prolonged recession could adversely affect our business in several ways. A continuation or worsening of the current credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability to obtain sufficient credit or pay for our products within the terms of sale and, as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and receivable write-offs could increase. A prolonged recession could further intensify the competition among the manufacturers and distributors with whom we compete for volume and market share, resulting in lower net revenues due to steeper discounts and further product mix-down. If certain key or sole suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the global economic conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies. In addition, the substantial losses in the equity markets as a result of the current recession can have an adverse effect on the assets of the Company’s pension plans. A continuation of the volatility of interest rates and negative equity returns under current market conditions could require greater contributions to the defined benefit plans in the future. Our business is significantly dependent on several major contracts with large national providers. Our relationships with these customers pose several risks. We have contracts with a number of large national funeral home customers that comprise a sizeable portion of our overall sales volume. Our largest contract is with Service Corporation International, which accounts for approximately 13% of our 2009 net revenues (and is our only customer over 10% of net revenues). Any decision by our large national funeral home customers to discontinue purchases from us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Also, while our contracts with large national funeral service providers give us important access to many of the largest purchasers of funeral service products, they may obligate us to sell our products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting our ability, in the short term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. 6 Table of Contents Collection risk associated with our note receivable from Forethought Financial Group, Inc. (“Forethought”) could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. We hold a significant non-operating asset in the form of a note receivable and related interest receivable from Forethought. This asset was transferred to us at the time of separation from Hill-Rom. As of September 30, 2009, this note receivable has an aggregate carrying value of $142.8 million. This note receivable primarily represents seller provided financing to Forethought, the entity that purchased Hill-Rom’s former Forethought Financial Services, Inc. subsidiary. Forethought, through its subsidiaries, provides insurance and financial solutions for families managing retirement and end-of-life needs. The recent global recession and contraction in available credit has particularly impacted companies in the financial services and insurance industries. Forethought’s ability to pay us under the terms of the note receivable may be adversely impacted by the deterioration being experienced in the credit markets, as it has material exposure to this market as an insurance company. Further, its ability to access credit or raise capital may be significantly restricted by current economic conditions, which in turn may limit its ability to execute its business plans or meet its obligation to pay us in the future. More recently, A.M. Best has placed the financial strength rating of Forethought’s subsidiary insurance operations “under review with negative implications.” These actions reflect A.M. Best’s concern with the subsidiary’s decline in statutory capitalization, net losses on a statutory and U.S. GAAP basis, its exposure related to unrealized losses on its investment portfolio, and the significant level of intangible assets relative to its U.S. GAAP equity. The rating has been placed under review by A.M. Best following discussions with Forethought about significant new capital raising initiatives. These efforts are expected to improve the capital position of the organization to support growth and offset any additional investment losses. While A.M. Best expects tangible progress in these efforts in the near term, the ratings of the subsidiary insurance operations will likely be negatively impacted should the capital raising efforts be unsuccessful. A downgrade in the subsidiary’s rating could damage the business prospects of Forethought and increase the risk of impairment to our note receivable in the future. Conversely, a successful capital infusion would improve the financial strength of Forethought (and immediately reduce our collection risk). In November 2009, Forethought informed us that they successfully raised net of proceeds approximately $101 million through the issuance of common stock. Should Forethought fail to perform consistently with the original expectations set forth by Forethought or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, the note could become impaired, causing an impairment charge that could result in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the sales volume of our burial caskets. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As the population of the United States continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in the United States will be relatively flat until the number of deaths increase due to aging baby boomers. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s and are also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the number of U.S. cremations is gradually and steadily increasing, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets, which was a contributing factor to lower burial casket sales volumes for us in each of the last three fiscal years. We expect these trends to continue into the foreseeable future, and our burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market conditions. Finally, the number of deaths can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas, due to a variety of other factors, including the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause our sales of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our growth strategy involves the potential for future significant acquisitions, some of which may be outside our current industry. We may not be able to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from these acquisitions. If an acquisition were to perform unfavorably, it could have an adverse impact to the value of the Company. 7 Table of Contents One component of our strategy contemplates our making selected acquisitions. Our business plan anticipates that we will make one or more acquisitions over the next few years with purchase prices aggregating several hundred million dollars. All acquisitions involve inherent uncertainties, some of which include, among other things, our ability to: • successfully identify targets for acquisition, • negotiate reasonable terms for any particular deal, • properly perform due diligence and determine all the significant risks associated with a particular acquisition, • properly evaluate target company management capabilities, • successfully integrate the target and achieve the desired performance. We also may acquire businesses with unknown or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for failure to comply with potential industry or environmental regulations or tax contingencies. We have plans and procedures to conduct reviews of potential acquisition candidates for compliance with applicable regulations and laws prior to acquisition and will also generally seek indemnification from sellers covering these matters. Despite these efforts, we may incur material liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. Volatility in our investment portfolio could negatively impact earnings. Also, if we are unable to convert our portfolio of auction rate securities to cash at reasonable terms, our earnings could be adversely affected. In connection with our separation from Hill-Rom, ownership in certain investments in private partnerships were transferred to us that had an aggregate carrying value of $14.3 million as of September 30, 2009. Volatility in that investment portfolio negatively or positively impacts earnings. These investments could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, default on debt instruments, and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our results from operations. In addition, we received a portfolio of auction rate securities (consisting of highly rated tax exempt state and municipal securities, the majority of which are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the U.S. government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program) that Hill-Rom was not able to liquidate prior to the separation due to the market conditions and auction failures. In November 2008, we received an enforceable, non-transferable right (the “Put”) from UBS Financial Services that allows us to sell approximately $30.1 million of our existing auction rate securities (carrying value at September 30, 2009, including the Put) at par value plus accrued interest. We may exercise the Put at anytime during the period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. If market conditions do not improve prior to June 30, 2010, we intend to exercise our rights under the Put. For our remaining auction rate securities (carrying value of $18.8 million at September 30, 2009), if conditions do not improve or worsen, we may not be able to convert these securities to cash for the foreseeable future, these assets could become impaired, and our earnings could be adversely affected. Our business is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional sources and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral service providers could present more of a competitive threat to us and our sales channel than is currently anticipated. While some of these providers have competed against us for many years, large discount retailers, casket stores, and internet casket retailers represent more recent competitors. We recently became aware that Wal-Mart has entered our market and has begun selling caskets online. Initially, it appears that Wal-Mart is testing this product offering online, but not in stores. However, it is too early to estimate the impact Wal-Mart might have on the industry. Also, there are several manufacturers located in China currently manufacturing caskets for sale into the United States. While sales from these providers are currently a small percentage of total casket sales in the United States, it is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on our business in the future. These competitors will continue to drive pricing and other competitive pressures in an industry that already has approximately twice the necessary domestic production capacity. Such competitive actions could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. 8 Table of Contents Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials used in our products could adversely affect profitability. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by volatile prices for steel, red metals (i.e. copper and bronze), and fuel. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. These prices fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials that cannot be recovered through increases in the price of our products could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We cannot guarantee that the prices we are paying for commodities today will continue in the future or that the marketplace will continue to support current prices for our products or that such prices can be adjusted to fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but we do enter into some fixed price supply contracts. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured from only a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities, or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. Despite our recent successes in court, the antitrust litigation in which we are a defendant has not yet been resolved, and an adverse outcome in that matter could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, and liquidity. As discussed in Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, we are a defendant in a purported antitrust class action lawsuit. The Federal District Court denied class certification in that matter, and the Fifth Circuit denied the plaintiffs’ appeal petition. Further requests for reconsideration by the plaintiffs have also been denied. Despite these favorable rulings, the FCA plaintiffs have recently indicated that they intend to pursue their individual injunctive and damage claims. After the District Court renders a final judgment as to the individual claims, the FCA plaintiffs may file an appeal, which could include an appeal of the District Court’s order denying class certification. If they succeeded in reversing the District Court order denying class certification and a class is certified in the FCA Action filed against Hill-Rom and Batesville and if the plaintiffs prevail at a trial of the class action, the damages awarded to the plaintiffs, which would be trebled as a matter of law, could have a significant material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity. In antitrust actions the plaintiffs may elect to enforce any judgment against any or all of our codefendants, who have no statutory contribution rights against each other. We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and governmental proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, auto liability, and employment-related matters. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. For a more detailed discussion of our asserted claims, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 34% of our employees as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations work under collective bargaining agreements. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Risk Arising From Our Separation Transaction with Hill-Rom The distribution of our stock to Hill-Rom’s stockholders in March 2008 could result in a significant tax liability. In connection with the separation in March 2008, Hill-Rom received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment under Code Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D). The IRS ruling relies on certain representations, assumptions, and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business. Although Hill-Rom believes that all of these representations, assumptions, and undertakings were correct, the IRS ruling would not be valid if they were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment, although Hill-Rom received an opinion of counsel with respect to the legal and tax issues not addressed in the private letter ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling, the IRS could determine that the distribution should have been treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling was false or had been violated. If the distribution were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, Hill-Rom would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our initial public shareholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax sharing agreement between Hill-Rom and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Hill-Rom against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. For a more detailed discussion, see the section entitled “Tax Sharing Agreement” within Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our indemnification obligations to Hill-Rom and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Hill-Rom or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. Our ability to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances is limited by the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with Hill-Rom. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Hill-Rom and its shareholders of the distribution, under a tax sharing agreement that we entered into with Hill-Rom, for the two year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: • issuing equity securities; • engaging in certain business combination or asset sale transactions; or • engaging in other actions or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. These restrictions limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. For more information, see the section entitled “Tax Sharing Agreement” within Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Provisions in our Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and of Indiana law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our Articles of Incorporation, By-laws and Indiana law contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of our shareholders. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable our Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests. These provisions include, among others: • the division of our Board of Directors into three classes with staggered terms; • the inability of our shareholders to act by less than unanimous written consent; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock, as well as on certain “control share” acquisitions. We believe these provisions are important for a public company and protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise potentially unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our shareholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 11 Table of Contents 