Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the continuing operations and the price of our common stock are subject to the following risks, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks faced by us. The risks described below are only the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known, or risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, may also impair our business operations. 6 We are subject to general risks in the food industry, including risks relating to changes in consumer preference and economic conditions, any of which risks, if realized, could negatively impact our operating results and financial position. The food industry, and the markets within the food industry in which we compete, are subject to various risks, including the following: evolving consumer preferences, nutritional and health-related concerns, federal, state and local food inspection and processing controls, consumer product liability claims, risks of product tampering, and the availability and expense of liability insurance. The meat and poultry industries are subject to scrutiny due to the association of meat and poultry products with recent outbreaks of illness, and on rare occasions even death, caused by food borne pathogens. Product recalls are sometimes required in the food industry to withdraw contaminated or mislabeled products from the market. Additionally, the failure to identify and react appropriately to changes in consumer trends, demands and preferences could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reduction for our products. Further, we may be adversely affected by changes in domestic or foreign economic conditions, including inflation or deflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, and energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges). These and other general risks related to the food industry, if realized by us, could have a significant adverse affect on demand for our products, as well as the costs and availability of raw materials, ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting our operating results and financial position. Fluctuations in the prices that we pay for raw materials could negatively impact our financial results. We purchase large quantities of commodity pork, beef, and flour. Historically, market prices for products we process have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including changes in the United States government farm support programs, changes in international agricultural and trading policies, weather, and other conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons. Our operating results are heavily dependent upon the prices paid for raw materials. The marketing of our value-added products does not lend itself to instantaneous changes in selling prices. Changes in selling prices are relatively infrequent and do not compare with the volatility of commodity markets. While fluctuations in significant cost structure components, such as ingredient commodities and fuel prices, have had a significant impact on profitability over the last two years, the impact of general price inflation on our financial position and results of operations has not been significant. Future volatility of general price inflation or deflation and raw material cost and availability could adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to extensive government regulations and a failure to comply with such regulations could negatively impact our financial results. Our operations are subject to extensive inspection and regulation by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”), the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”), and by other federal, state, and local authorities regarding the processing, packaging, storage, transportation, distribution, and labeling of products that are manufactured, produced and processed by us. Our processing facilities and products are subject to continuous inspection by the USDA and/or other federal, state, and local authorities. The USDA has issued strict policies concerning the control of listeria monocytogenes in ready-to-eat meat and poultry products and contamination by food borne pathogens such as E. coli and salmonella, and established a new system of regulation known as the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) program. The HACCP program requires all meat and poultry processing plants to develop and implement sanitary operating procedures and other program requirements. We believe that we are currently in compliance with governmental laws and regulations and that we maintain necessary permits and licenses relating to our meat operations. A failure to obtain or a loss of necessary permits and licenses could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand and could adversely affect our operating performance. Furthermore, we are routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. If found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. We depend on our key management, the loss of which could negatively impact our operations. Our executive officers and certain other key employees have been primarily responsible for the development and expansion of our business, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could adversely effect us. Our success will be dependent in part upon our continued ability to recruit, motivate, and retain qualified personnel. We can not assure you that we will be successful in this regard. We have no employment or non-competition agreements with key personnel. 7 We depend on our major customers and any loss of such customers could have a negative impact on our profitability. We could suffer significant reductions in revenues and operating income if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, Wal-Mart®, which accounted for 11.4% of revenues in fiscal year 2009. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors have consolidated in recent years. Such consolidation has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories while demanding lower pricing and increased promotional programs. These customers also may use their shelf space for their own private label products. Failure to respond to these trends could reduce our volume and cause us to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our product lines which could adversely affect our profitability. With more than 80% concentration of beneficial ownership of our stock held by the Bridgford family, there are risks that they can exert significant influence or control over our corporate matters. Members of the Bridgford family beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 81% of our outstanding stock. In addition, three members of the Bridgford family serve on the Board of Directors. As a result, members of the Bridgford family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our shareholders, including amendments to by-laws, election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other shareholders and could depress our stock price. Additionally, as a result of the Bridgford family’s significant ownership of the outstanding voting stock, we have relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ stock market; therefore, we have elected not to implement the rule that provides for a nominating committee to identify and recommend nominees to the Board of Directors. Pursuant to this exemption, our compensation committee, which is made up of independent directors, does not have sole authority to determine the compensation of our executive officers, including our Chairman of the Board. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 