Item 1A. RISK FACTORS In this section of the Form 10-K, we describe the risks we believe are most important for you to think about when you consider investing in, selling, or owning our stock. This information should be assessed along with the other information we provide you in this Form 10-K. Like most companies, our business involves risks. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not currently known or considered immaterial by us at this time may result in adverse effects on our business. Risks Related to Our Business An adverse outcome in the ongoing antitrust litigation in which we are a defendant could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and liquidity. We are a defendant in several purported antitrust class action lawsuits. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K. The plaintiffs in one of these cases have served a report indicating that they are seeking damages ranging from approximately $947 million to approximately $1.46 billion before trebling on behalf of the purported class of consumers they seek to represent, and the plaintiffs in the other case have served a report indicating that they are seeking damages of approximately $99.2 million before trebling on behalf of the purported class of independent casket resellers they seek to represent. If these cases go to trial, the plaintiffs are likely to claim additional alleged damages for the period between their reports and the time of trial. At this point, it is not possible to estimate the amount of any additional alleged damage claims that they may make. A Magistrate Judge has recommended that neither class be certified; however, his recommendation is not binding on the District Judge and it is possible that the District Judge or an appellate court could order one or both classes certified. In the event a class is certified in any of these cases and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, any damages awarded would be trebled as a matter of law and the plaintiffs may elect to enforce any judgment against any or all of the codefendants, who have no statutory contribution rights against each other. Accordingly, if a class is certified in any of these cases and the plaintiffs prevail at trial, we could be subject to substantial liability. In such event, we may not be able to satisfy any such judgment or to post an appeal bond for the appeal of any such judgment. In that event, we could resort to bankruptcy proceedings. If we are able to satisfy a judgment or post an appeal bond, doing so may significantly impair our financial position and liquidity. Although we have entered into a judgment sharing agreement with Hill-Rom with respect to this litigation, there can be no assurance that Hill-Rom will be able to satisfy its potential obligations under this agreement. Moreover, negative covenants contained in the distribution agreement relating to our separation from Hill-Rom, intended to preserve the credit capacity of each of Hillenbrand and Hill-Rom to perform their obligations under the judgment sharing agreement, impose restrictions on us that, among other matters, may limit our ability to consummate acquisitions or pay dividends. For a more detailed discussion, see the sections entitled “Distribution Agreement” and “Judgment Sharing Agreement” within Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. In addition to the risks associated with an adverse outcome in this litigation, we continue to incur significant legal costs in the vigorous defense of this litigation and expect these costs to continue for the foreseeable future. We currently expect these costs to be approximately $19 million in fiscal 2009, although this could change significantly depending on further future developments. Under the judgment sharing agreement, we are responsible for all costs incurred by us and Hill-Rom in defense of this litigation. Collection risk associated with our note receivable from Forethought Financial Group, Inc. (“Forethought”) could have a material adverse impact on our earnings. As of September 30, 2008, we held a significant non-operating asset in the form of a note receivable and related interest receivable whose issuer is related to an industry severely impacted by recent global market and economic conditions. This asset was transferred to us at the time of separation from Hill-Rom. As of September 30, 2008, this note receivable has an aggregate carrying value of $130.4 million. This note receivable primarily represents seller provided financing to Forethought, the entity that purchased Hill-Rom’s former Forethought Financial Services, Inc. subsidiary. Forethought, through its subsidiaries, provides insurance and financial solutions for families managing retirement and end-of-life needs. 6 Table of Contents Commencing in 2007 and continuing throughout fiscal 2008, adverse financial developments have impacted the U.S. and global economies and financial markets and have particularly impacted companies in the financial services and insurance industries. Forethought’s ability to pay us under the terms of the note receivable may be adversely impacted by the deterioration being experienced in the credit markets, as they have material exposure to this market as an insurance company. Further, their ability to access credit or raise capital may be significantly restricted by current economic conditions, which in turn may limit their ability to execute their business plans or meet their obligation to pay us in the future. Should Forethought fail to perform consistently with the original expectations set forth by Forethought or underperform to an extent that it cannot meet its financial obligations, our earnings could be negatively impacted resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is significantly dependent on several major contracts with large national providers. Our relationships with these customers pose several risks. We have contracts with a number of large, national funeral home customers which comprise a sizeable portion of our overall sales volume. Any decision by our large national funeral home customers to discontinue purchases from us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, while our contracts with large funeral service providers give us important access to many of the largest purchasers of funeral service products, they may obligate us to sell our products at contracted prices for extended periods of time, therefore limiting our ability, in the short-term, to raise prices in response to significant increases in raw material prices or other factors. Volatility in our investment portfolio could negatively impact earnings. Also, if we are unable to convert our portfolio of auction rate securities to cash on reasonable terms, our earnings could be adversely affected. In connection with our separation from Hill-Rom, ownership in certain investments in private partnerships were transferred to us that had an aggregate carrying value of $25.2 million as of September 30, 2008. Volatility in that investment portfolio could negatively or positively impact earnings. These investments could be adversely affected by general economic conditions, changes in interest rates, default on debt instruments and other factors, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial condition. At the time of the separation and in connection with the allocation of cash, cash equivalents and investments between us and Hill-Rom, we received a portfolio of auction rate securities (consisting of highly rated state and municipal bonds) that Hill-Rom was not able to liquidate prior to separation due to the recent market conditions and auction failures. The auction rate securities currently have a carrying value of $51.1 million as of September 30, 2008. If current market conditions do not improve, or if they worsen, we may not be able to convert these securities to cash for the foreseeable future, these assets could be impaired, and our earnings could be adversely affected. In November 2008, we received an enforceable, non-transferable right (the “Put”) from UBS Financial Services that allows us to sell approximately $30.6 million of our existing auction rate securities (carrying value at September 30, 2008) at par value plus accrued interest. We may exercise the Put at anytime during the period of June 30, 2010, through July 2, 2012. Recent global market and economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent worldwide financial and credit market disruptions and uncertainty have reduced the availability of credit generally necessary to fund a continuation and expansion of global economic activity. The shortage of credit combined with the recent substantial losses in equity markets and other economic developments could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A general slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession could adversely affect our business in several ways. A continuation or worsening of the current credit markets and economic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability to obtain sufficient credit or pay for our products within the terms of sale and as a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs could increase. If certain key or sole suppliers were to become capacity constrained or insolvent as a result of the global economic conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies. In addition, the financial disruption is having an adverse effect on the assets of the Company’s defined benefit plans. A continuation of the volatility of interest rates and negative equity returns under current market conditions could result in greater contributions to the defined benefit plans in the future. 7 Table of Contents Continued fluctuations in mortality rates and increased cremations may adversely affect, as they have in recent years, the volume of our sales of burial caskets. The life expectancy of U.S. citizens has increased steadily since the 1950s and is expected to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As the population of the United States continues to age, we anticipate the number of deaths in North America will be relatively flat until the number of deaths increase due to aging baby boomers. Cremations as a percentage of total U.S. deaths have increased steadily since the 1960s, and are also expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. Therefore, the number of U.S. cremations is gradually and steadily increasing, resulting in a contraction in the demand for burial caskets, which was a contributing factor to lower burial casket sales volumes for us in each of fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. We expect these trends to continue into the foreseeable future and our burial casket volumes will likely continue to be negatively impacted by these market conditions. Finally, the number of deaths can vary over short periods of time and among different geographical areas, due to a variety of other factors, including the timing and severity of seasonal outbreaks of illnesses such as pneumonia and influenza. Such variations could cause our sales of burial caskets to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year. Our business is facing increasing competition from a number of non-traditional sources and caskets manufactured abroad and imported into North America. Non-traditional funeral service providers could present more of a competitive threat to us and our sales channel than is currently anticipated. While some of these have competed against us for many years, large discount retailers, casket stores, and internet casket retailers represent more recent competitors. Also, there are several manufacturers located in China currently manufacturing caskets for sale into the United States. While sales from these providers are currently a minor percentage of total casket sales in the United States, it is not possible to quantify the financial impact that these competitors will have on our business. These competitors will continue to drive additional pricing and other competitive pressures in an industry that already has approximately double the necessary domestic production capacity. Such competitive actions could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Increased prices for, or unavailability of, raw materials used in our products could adversely affect profitability or revenues. In particular, our results of operations continue to be adversely affected by high prices for steel, red metals (i.e. copper and bronze), and fuel. Our profitability is affected by the prices of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, fuel related delivery costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates, and in some cases, government regulation. Significant increases in the prices of raw materials that cannot be recovered through increases in the prices of our products could adversely affect our results of operations. While we experienced some overall cost pressure in 2007 and 2006, we saw significantly higher prices in fiscal 2008 for commodities used in the manufacture of our products, including steel, red metals, and fuel. Although we have historically been able to offset such rising costs with increases in the prices of our products, there can be no assurance that the marketplace will continue to support the higher prices or that such prices will fully offset such commodity price increases in the future. Any further increases in prices resulting from a tightening supply of these or other commodities or fuel could adversely affect our profitability. We generally do not engage in hedging transactions with respect to raw material purchases, but do enter into some fixed price supply contracts. Our dependency upon regular deliveries of supplies from particular suppliers means that interruptions or stoppages in such deliveries could adversely affect our operations until arrangements with alternate suppliers could be made. Several of the raw materials used in the manufacture of our products currently are procured only from a single source. If any of these sole-source suppliers were unable to deliver these materials for an extended period of time as a result of financial difficulties, catastrophic events affecting their facilities, or other factors, or if we were unable to negotiate acceptable terms for the supply of materials with these sole-source suppliers, our business could suffer. We may not be able to find acceptable alternatives, and any such alternatives could result in increased costs. Extended unavailability of a necessary raw material could cause us to cease manufacturing one or more products for a period of time. 8 Table of Contents We are involved on an ongoing basis in claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings relating to our operations, including environmental, antitrust, patent infringement, business practices, commercial transactions, and other matters. The ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits and governmental proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty but could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We are also involved in other possible claims, including product and general liability, workers compensation, auto liability, and employment-related matters. While we maintain insurance for certain of these exposures, the policies in place are high-deductible policies resulting in our assuming exposure for a layer of coverage with respect to such claims. For a more complete description of our asserted claims, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. A substantial portion of our workforce is unionized, and we could face labor disruptions that would interfere with our operations. Approximately 35% of our employees as part of our logistics and manufacturing operations work under collective bargaining agreements. Although we have not experienced any significant work stoppages in the past 20 years as a result of labor disagreements, we cannot ensure that such a stoppage will not occur in the future. Inability to negotiate satisfactory new agreements or a labor disturbance at one of our principal facilities could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Upon the termination of certain agreements with Hill-Rom, we may experience additional increased costs. Hill-Rom is contractually obligated to provide to us only those services specified in the transition services and shared services agreements and the other agreements we entered into with Hill-Rom in preparation for the separation. Upon the expiration of these agreements, many of the services that are covered in these agreements will have to be provided internally or by unaffiliated third parties, and we expect that in some instances we may incur higher costs to obtain such services than we incurred under the terms of these agreements. In addition, if Hill-Rom does not continue to effectively perform the services that are called for under the transition services and shared services agreements and the other agreements, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. We do not have a long operating history as a separate publicly traded company. Prior to the consummation of our separation from Hill-Rom, we operated as part of Hill-Rom. Accordingly, until the separation, we had no direct experience complying with certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or with the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Additionally, we had not been responsible for performing various corporate functions, including tax administration, treasury administration, compensation and benefits administration, investor relations, internal audit and risk management. The historical financial information related to periods prior to the separation on March 31, 2008, included in this Form 10-K does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. Prior to our separation on March 31, 2008, our business was operated by Hill-Rom as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as a separate, publicly traded company. As a result, we made certain modifications to certain business support and governance activities upon our separation from Hill-Rom. Our historical financial results reflect allocations of expenses for these and similar functions but these allocations are less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate, publicly traded company. 9 Table of Contents Risk Arising From Our Separation Transaction with Hill-Rom The distribution of our stock to Hill-Rom’s stockholders could result in a significant tax liability. Hill-Rom has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) that the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment under Code Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D). The IRS ruling relies on certain representations, assumptions and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business. Although Hill-Rom believes that all of these representations, assumptions and undertakings were correct, the IRS ruling would not be valid if they were incorrect. Moreover, the IRS private letter ruling does not address all the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution qualified for tax-free treatment, although Hill-Rom received an opinion of counsel with respect to the legal and tax issues not addressed in the private letter ruling. Notwithstanding the IRS private letter ruling, the IRS could determine that the distribution should have been treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling was false or had been violated. If the distribution were to fail to qualify for tax-free treatment, Hill-Rom would be subject to tax as if it had sold the common stock of our company in a taxable sale for its fair market value and our initial public shareholders would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of our common stock that was distributed to them. Under the tax sharing agreement between Hill-Rom and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Hill-Rom against any tax resulting from the distribution to the extent that such tax resulted from (1) an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, (2) other actions or failures to act by us or (3) any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect or violated. For a more detailed discussion, see the section entitled “Tax Sharing Agreement” within Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our indemnification obligations to Hill-Rom and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Hill-Rom or such other persons under the circumstances set forth in the tax sharing agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. We may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect to achieve from our separation from Hill-Rom, and any such benefits may be offset in part by certain negative consequences of the separation. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that we expected to result from our separation from Hill-Rom or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. For example, there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will regard our corporate structure as clearer and simpler than the prior Hill-Rom corporate structure or place a greater value on our company as a stand-alone company than on our business as a part of Hill-Rom. As a result, the aggregate market price of Hill-Rom common stock and our common stock as separate companies may be less than the market price per share of Hill-Rom’s common stock had the separation and distribution not occurred. Because we are a smaller company than Hill-Rom prior to the separation and may have credit ratings below Hill-Rom’s prior to the separation, we expect to have less borrowing capacity and greater borrowing costs than Hill-Rom currently had before the separation. Our ability to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances is limited by the Tax Sharing Agreement we entered into with Hill-Rom. To preserve the tax-free treatment to Hill-Rom and its shareholders of the distribution, under a tax sharing agreement that we entered into with Hill-Rom, for the two year period following the distribution, we are prohibited, except in specified circumstances, from: • issuing equity securities; • engaging in certain business combination or asset sale transactions; or • engaging in other actions or transactions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the distribution. 10 Table of Contents These restrictions limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. For more information, see the section entitled “Tax Sharing Agreement” within Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Provisions in our articles of incorporation and by-laws and of Indiana law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation, by-laws and Indiana law contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control if our Board of Directors determines that such changes in control are not in the best interests of us and our shareholders. While these provisions have the effect of encouraging persons seeking to acquire control of our company to negotiate with our Board of Directors, they could enable our Board of Directors to hinder or frustrate a transaction that some, or a majority, of our shareholders might believe to be in their best interests. These provisions include, among others: • a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • inability of our shareholders to act by less than unanimous written consent; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Indiana law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 10% or more of our outstanding common stock, as well as on certain “control share” acquisitions. We believe these provisions are important for a public company and protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise potentially unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED SEC STAFF COMMENTS We have not received any comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports that remain unresolved. 11 Table of Contents 