Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other matters set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the continuing operations and the price of the Company’s common stock are subject to the following risks, each of which could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks described below are not the only risks faced by the Company. The 6 risks described below are only the risks that the Company currently believes are material to its business. However, additional risks not presently known, or risks that are currently believed to be immaterial, may also impair business operations. General Risks of Food Industry The food industry, and the markets within the food industry in which the Company competes, are subject to various risks, including the following: adverse changes in general economic conditions, evolving consumer preferences, nutritional and health-related concerns, federal, state and local food inspection and processing controls, consumer product liability claims, risks of product tampering, and the availability and expense of liability insurance. The meat and poultry industries are subject to scrutiny due to the association of meat and poultry products with recent outbreaks of illness, and on rare occasions even death, caused by food borne pathogens. Product recalls are sometimes required in the food industries to withdraw contaminated or mislabeled products from the market. These and other risks, if realized by the Company, could have an adverse affect on our operating results and financial position. Risks Relating to Suppliers and Raw Materials The Company purchases large quantities of commodity pork, beef and flour. Historically, market prices for products processed by the Company have fluctuated in response to a number of factors, including changes in the United States government farm support programs, changes in international agricultural and trading policies, weather and other conditions during the growing and harvesting seasons. The Company’s operating results are heavily dependent upon the prices paid for raw materials. The marketing of the Company’s value-added products does not lend itself to instantaneous changes in selling prices. Changes in selling prices are relatively infrequent and do not compare with the volatility of commodity markets. While fluctuations in significant components of our cost structure, such as commodities and fuel prices, have had a significant impact upon our profitability over the last three years, the impact of general price inflation on the Company’s financial position and results of operations has not been significant during the last three years. However, future volatility of general price inflation and raw material cost and availability could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Risks Relating to Government Regulation The operations of the Company are subject to extensive inspection and regulation by the United States Department of Agriculture (the “USDA”), the Food and Drug Administration (the “FDA”) and by other federal, state and local authorities, regarding the processing, packaging, storage, transportation, distribution and labeling of products that are manufactured, produced and processed by the Company. The Company’s processing facilities and products are subject to continuous inspection by USDA and/or other federal, state and local authorities. On July 25, 1996, the USDA issued strict new policies concerning contamination by food borne pathogens such as E. coli, Listeria Monocytogenes and Salmonella, and established a new system of regulation known as the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) program. The HACCP program requires all meat and poultry processing plants to develop and implement sanitary operating procedures and other program requirements on or before January 26, 1998. The Company believes that it is currently in compliance with governmental laws and regulations (including the January 1998 HACCP requirements), and that it maintains necessary permits and licenses relating to its meat operations. On October 6, 2003, new USDA regulations regarding the control of Listeria Monocytogenes in Ready-To-Eat Meat and Poultry Products took effect. These regulations require environmental and/or finished product testing for harmful bacteria that may be present. This testing could result in products being retained, recalled or destroyed if Listeria Monocytogenes is detected. The Company is in full compliance with these regulations. A failure to obtain or a loss of necessary permits and licenses could delay or prevent us from meeting current product demand and could adversely affect operating performance. Furthermore, the Company is routinely subject to new or modified laws, regulations and accounting standards. If found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these or other areas, the Company could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or asset seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a significant adverse effect on the Company’s financial results. 7 Risks Relating to Dependence on Key Management The Company’s executive officers and certain other key employees have been primarily responsible for the development and expansion of the Company’s business, and the loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on the Company. The Company’s success will be dependent in part upon its continued ability to recruit, motivate and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in this regard. The Company has no employment or non-competition agreements with key personnel. Risks Relating to Changes in Consumer Preference and Economic Conditions The food industry in general is subject to changing consumer trends, demands and preferences. Failure to identify and react appropriately to changes in these factors could lead to, among other things, reduced demand and price reduction for the Company’s products and could have an adverse effect on financial results. Furthermore, the Company may be adversely affected by changes in domestic or foreign economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, and energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges). Any such changes could have a significant adverse effect on demand for our products, as well as the costs and availability of raw materials, ingredients and packaging materials, thereby negatively affecting financial results. Risks Relating to Loss of Major Customers The Company could suffer significant reductions in revenues and operating income if we lost one or more of our largest customers, including, for example, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., which accounted for 14.6% of revenues in fiscal year 2007. Many of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years. Such consolidation has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories while demanding lower pricing and increased promotional programs. These customers also may use their shelf space for their own private label products. Failure to respond to these trends could reduce our volume and cause us to lower prices or increase promotional spending for our product lines which could adversely affect our profitability. Members of the Bridgford Family Can Exercise Significant Control Members of the Bridgford family beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 77% of the outstanding stock of the Company. In addition, three members of the Bridgford family serve on the Board of Directors. As a result, members of the Bridgford family have the ability to exert substantial influence or actual control over our management and affairs and over substantially all matters requiring action by our shareholders, including amendments to by-laws, election and removal of directors, any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in control otherwise favored by our other shareholders and could depress the Company’s stock price. Additionally, as a result of the Bridgford family’s significant ownership of the outstanding voting stock, we have relied on the “controlled company” exemption from certain corporate governance requirements of the NASDAQ stock market; therefore, we have elected not to implement the rule that provides for a nominating committee to identify and recommend nominees to the Board of Directors. Pursuant to these exemptions, our compensation committee, which is made up of independent directors, does not have sole authority to determine the compensation of our executive officers, including our Chairman. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 8 