ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to our company and our business. You should also read the other information included in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target business concerning an initial business combination and may be unable to complete our initial business combination. If we expend all of the $100,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $4.0 million, subject to adjustment, on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking our initial business combination, but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required timeframe, in which case, we would liquidate our assets. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we will have until February 26, 2010 (or until up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote) in which to consummate our initial business combination. If we fail to consummate our initial business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will automatically cease, in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. The foregoing requirements are set forth in Article IX of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and may not be eliminated without the vote of at least 90% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock or except with respect to an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for an extension of the time period within which we must complete our initial business combination, which requires approval of the majority of the outstanding shares of common stock, or except in connection with, and upon consummation of, our initial business combination. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of our initial business combination. If we are forced to liquidate before our initial business combination and must distribute the amount held in the trust account, our public stockholders would likely receive less than $10.00 per share and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination by February 26, 2010 (or up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote) and are forced to liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidation distribution would likely be less than $10.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the anticipated costs of seeking our initial business combination. Furthermore, there will be no distribution with respect to our outstanding warrants which will expire worthless if we liquidate before the completion of our initial business combination. 13 Table of Contents We have at least 24 months from the closing of the initial public offering, and may have up to 30 months from the closing of our initial public offering, to complete an initial business combination. As a result, your funds may be held in the trust account for up to two and a half years if we fail to complete an initial business combination. We have until February 26, 2010 to complete an initial business combination before we will be required to liquidate and return the funds in the trust account to our public stockholders. If we have entered into a definitive agreement by such date, we may seek to extend the date before which we must complete our initial business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, beyond February 26, 2010 to up to August 26, 2010 by calling a special or annual meeting of our stockholders for the purpose of soliciting their approval for an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for such extension period. If the proposal for the extension to up to August 26, 2010 is approved by our stockholders as described in this Annual Report, we will have up to an additional six months beyond the 24-month period within which to complete our initial business combination. As a result we will be able to hold your funds in the trust account for at least until February 26, 2010, and may be able to hold them until up to August 26, 2010 before returning any of your funds from the trust account on liquidation. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that has not been identified, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $6.75 million upon the consummation of our initial public offering and will file a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units will be immediately tradable, we will be entitled to withdraw a certain amount of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account prior to the completion of our initial business combination and we have a longer period of time to complete our initial business combination than we would if we were subject to such rule. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate business combinations, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are a number of other blank check companies seeking initial business combinations. While some of those companies must complete an initial business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate an initial business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we are subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate our initial business combination within the required time period. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having business objectives similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through their affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation that we have to seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be 14 Table of Contents viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating our initial business combination. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering not being held in the trust account are insufficient to allow us to operate until August 26, 2010, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until August 26, 2010, assuming that our initial business combination is not consummated during that time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates will be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit the funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. We have at least six months longer than most other blank check companies to effect an initial business combination and therefore the net proceeds of our initial public offering being held in the trust account may remain in the trust account for a longer period of time than other blank check or special purpose acquisition company offerings before they are released to you. The period of time we have to complete an initial business combination is longer than blank check companies subject to Rule 419, which have 18 months to complete an initial business combination, or other special purpose acquisition companies, which typically have 18 or 24 months to complete an initial business combination. As a result, if we do not complete an initial business combination, the net proceeds of our initial public offering being held in the trust account will remain in trust for a longer period of time than blank check subject to Rule 419 or other special purpose acquisition company offerings before they are released to you. Public stockholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group, will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. When we seek stockholder approval of any initial business combination or the extension of the time period within which we must consummate an initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to have its shares of common stock converted to cash if the public stockholder votes against the business combination or the extension period and the business combination or the extension period is approved and, in the case of the initial business combination, completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public stockholder, together with any affiliate or any other person with whom such public stockholder is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purposes of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering, on a cumulative basis, which includes any exercise of conversion rights in connection with either the stockholder vote, if any, required to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for an extension of the time period within which we must complete our initial business combination or the stockholder vote required to approve our initial business combination. Shares converted in connection with the vote on an extension of the time period within which we must complete our initial business combination and in connection with the vote on the business combination will be aggregated for purposes of this 10% limit. Accordingly, if you purchase more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering, vote all of your shares against a proposed business combination or an extension period and request conversion rights and 15 Table of Contents such proposed business combination or extension period is approved, you will not be able to seek conversion rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following an initial business combination or that the market price of the common stock will exceed the per-share conversion price. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares in connection with a proposed business combination to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights prior to the deadline for exercising their rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to either tender their certificates to our transfer agent or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the DTC’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical share certificate. If it takes longer than anticipated to obtain a physical certificate, public stockholders who wish to exercise their conversion rights may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to have their shares converted. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. A decline in interest rates could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund our search, to pay our tax obligations and to complete our initial business combination. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital which we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes certain interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsors to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our sponsors are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. 16 Table of Contents If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $9.96 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to execute agreements with all vendors and service providers we engage, and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, in which they will waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such third parties entered into such agreements with us, they will not challenge the enforceability of these waivers and bring claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming tortious interference as a result of our initial business combination. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $9.96 due to claims of such creditors. Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the claims of prospective target businesses, vendors for services rendered or products sold to us, or of third parties, including lenders, with whom we entered into contractual relationships following the consummation of our initial public offering, will not reduce the proceeds in the trust account available for payment to public stockholders or require the return or disgorgement of payments made from the trust account to public stockholders, but only if such prospective target business, vendor or third party does not execute a valid and enforceable waiver. Accordingly, if a claim brought by a prospective target business, vendor or third party did not exceed the amount of funds available to us outside of the trust account or available to be released to us from interest earned on the trust account balance, Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors would not have any obligation to indemnify such claims as they would be paid from such available funds. Even if a claim exceeded such amounts, there will be no liability (1) as to claimed amounts owed to such a prospective target business, vendor or third party who executed a valid and enforceable waiver or (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Based upon representations from Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors as to their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act) and that they have sufficient funds available to them to satisfy their indemnification obligations, we believe they will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise given the limited nature of the obligations. We will enforce our rights under the indemnification arrangements against them. However, in the event Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors have liability to us under these indemnification arrangements, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy their obligations. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $9.96 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination by February 26, 2010 (or up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote), our corporate existence will automatically cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, in which case we will as promptly as practicable thereafter adopt a plan of distribution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 278 provides that our existence will continue for at least three years after its expiration for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, whether civil, 17 Table of Contents criminal or administrative, by or against us, and of enabling us gradually to settle and close our business, to dispose of and convey our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets, but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which we were organized. Our existence will continue automatically even beyond the three-year period for the purpose of completing the prosecution or defense of suits begun prior to the expiration of the three-year period, until such time as any judgments, orders or decrees resulting from such suits are fully executed. Section 281(b) will require us to pay or make reasonable provision for all then-existing claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured contractual claims known to us, and to make such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any then-pending claims and for claims that have not been made known to us or that have not arisen but that, based on facts known to us at the time, are likely to arise or to become known to us within ten years after the date of dissolution. Payment or reasonable provision for payment of claims will be made in the discretion of the board of directors based on the nature of the claim and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. Claims may be satisfied by direct negotiation and payment, purchase of insurance to cover the claims, setting aside money as a reserve for future claims, or otherwise as determined by the board of directors in its discretion. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent ten years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust account to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from third parties, including lenders, with whom we entered into contractual relationships following the consummation of our initial public offering, vendors and service providers that we engage after the consummation of our initial public offering (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. We will seek to have all such third parties, vendors and service providers and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account. Accordingly, we believe the claims that could be made against us should be limited, thereby lessening the likelihood that any claim would result in any liability extending to the trust. However, we cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after our liquidation in the event our initial business combination has not been consummated by February 26, 2010 (or up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote), this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants and causing such warrants to expire worthless. No warrants held by public stockholders will be exercisable, and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise a warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the shares of common stock. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have 18 Table of Contents agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants as of the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We will not be required to net cash settle the warrants if we do not maintain a current prospectus. In such event, the warrants held by public stockholders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited, such warrants may expire worthless and, as a result, an investor may have paid the full unit price solely for the shares of common stock included in the units. Although the shares of common stock issuable pursuant to the founders’ warrants and sponsors’ warrants may or may not be issued pursuant to a registration statement, the warrant agreement provides that the founders’ warrants and sponsors’ warrants may not be exercised unless a registration statement relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants purchased in our initial public offering is effective and a related current prospectus is available. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of common stock upon the exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock unless the shares of common stock issuable upon an exercise has been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. At the time that the warrants become exercisable, we expect to continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. If the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and they may expire worthless if they cannot be sold. Since we have not yet selected any target business with which to complete our initial business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the business’ operations. Because we have not yet identified a prospective target business, investors currently have no basis to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the target business’ operations. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of such entities. Although our management will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that they will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our securities will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a target business. Except for the limitations that a target business have a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of the signing of a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business combination and that we will obtain control of the target, we have virtually unrestricted flexibility in identifying and selecting a prospective business combination candidate. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for approval. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our stockholders for 19 Table of Contents approval. In addition, a proposal that you vote against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote for the proposed business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that you vote for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public stockholders vote against the proposed business combination. We will be required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business only if the board of directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value and we will obtain an opinion as to the fairness of a business combination if we plan to consummate our initial business combination with an affiliate or a registered broker-dealer. The fair market value of a target business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon one or more standards generally accepted by the financial community (such as actual and potential sales, the values of comparable businesses, earnings and cash flow, and/or book value). If our board of directors is not able to independently determine that the target business or businesses have sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of FINRA with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. If we seek to consummate our initial business combination with an affiliate or with a registered broker-dealer, we will obtain a fairness opinion from an independent investment bank that meets the requirements of a “qualified independent underwriter” under NASD rules. In all other instances, we will have no obligation to obtain an opinion. We may issue shares of our capital stock or debt securities to complete our initial business combination. Issuance of our capital stock would reduce the equity interest of our stockholders and may cause a change in control of our ownership, while the issuance of debt securities may have a significant impact on our ability to utilize our available cash. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $.0001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering and the purchase of the sponsors’ warrants, there were 109,047,058 authorized but unissued shares of common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the founders’ warrants and sponsors’ warrants) and all of the 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of the date of this Annual Report, we may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common or preferred stock, or a combination of common and preferred stock, to complete our initial business combination. The issuance of additional shares of common stock or any number of shares of our preferred stock: • may significantly reduce your equity interest; • may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of common stock if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our common stock; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of our company; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after our initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; 20 Table of Contents • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as holders of 35% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering, on a cumulative basis, both voting against the business combination and exercising their conversion rights for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of the shares held by our public stockholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination and to be successful thereafter will be totally dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may not remain with us following our initial business combination. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of these individuals, at least until we have consummated our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, none of our officers are required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our officers. The unexpected loss of the services of our key personnel could have a detrimental effect on us. The role of our key personnel in the target business cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following our initial business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place, although we cannot assure you of this. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. 21 Table of Contents Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following our initial business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Our key personnel will be able to remain with us after the consummation of our initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. Our officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the amount of interest income from the trust account up to a maximum of $4.0 million, subject to adjustment, that may be released to us as working capital. Our officers and directors may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such excess expenses. We do not have a policy that prohibits our officers and directors from negotiating for the reimbursement of such expenses by a target business. If the owners of the target business do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our officers or directors could influence our officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which could create a conflict of interest when allocating their time between our operations and their other commitments. We presently expect each of our employees to devote such amount of time as they reasonably believe is necessary to our business. We do not intend to have any full time employees prior to the consummation of our initial business combination. All of our officers and directors are engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ other business affairs require them to devote more substantial amounts of time to such affairs, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. Our sponsors and their affiliates may be, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time and determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. There may be situations in which one or both of our sponsors and their affiliates have a duty or an interest that actually or potentially conflicts with our interests. Our sponsors and their affiliates may be, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our sponsors and their affiliates may become aware 22 Table of Contents of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity time should be allocated or a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor and, as a result, we may be denied certain investment opportunities or may otherwise be disadvantaged in some situations by our relationship to our sponsors and their affiliates. Until the earlier of the filing by us of a Current Report on Form 8-K with the SEC announcing the execution of a definitive agreement for our initial business combination, or our liquidation, our sponsors and our officers have agreed that they will not become a sponsor, promoter, officer or director of any other blank check company. In order to minimize conflicts of interest that may arise from the business activities of Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC (together with its affiliates, “BNYH”) and Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP (together with its affiliates, “PWP”), we have entered into a business opportunity right of first review agreement with each of PWP and BNYH. Pursuant to this agreement, each of PWP and BNYH agreed that, from the date of final prospectus relating to our initial public offering until the consummation of our initial business combination (or our liquidation in the event we do not consummate an initial business combination), we will have a right of first review with respect to certain business combination opportunities of each of PWP and BNYH. Each of PWP and BNYH will, and will cause the companies or entities under its respective management to, first offer any such business combination opportunity to us (subject to any pre-existing fiduciary obligations it or they may have and other exceptions) and it will not pursue such business combination opportunity unless and until a majority of our disinterested directors have determined for any reason that we will not pursue such opportunity. All of our founders own founders’ units, founders’ common stock and founders’ warrants issued prior to our initial public offering and certain of them purchased sponsors’ warrants following our initial public offering. These securities will not participate in liquidation distributions in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination and, therefore, our founders may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for our initial business combination. All of our founders own founders’ units, founders’ common stock and founders’ warrants that were issued prior to our initial public offering. Our sponsors also purchased sponsors’ warrants upon consummation of our initial public offering and our independent directors purchased an aggregate of 149,571 sponsors’ warrants from our sponsors immediately following the consummation of our initial public offering. Such individuals or individuals on behalf of such entities have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the founders’ common stock upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate our initial business combination. Accordingly, the founders’ common stock and founders’ warrants, as well as the sponsors’ warrants, and any warrants purchased by our founders in the secondary market will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination by February 26, 2010 (or up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote). In addition certain members of our management team indirectly own shares of our common stock and warrants through affiliations with our sponsors. The personal and financial interests of our founders and members of our management team may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing our initial business combination. Consequently, our founders’ and members of our management team’s discretion in identifying and selecting a suitable target business may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest and the conflict of interest will increase as we approach February 26, 2010 and we have not consummated a business combination. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. However, we cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Amex in the future prior to our initial business combination. Additionally, in connection with our initial business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Amex will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its 23 Table of Contents more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We are likely to complete our initial business combination with only one target business with the proceeds of our initial public offering, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our initial business combination must be with one or more target businesses having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of the signing of a definitive agreement in connection with our initial business combination. However, we are likely to complete our initial business combination with only one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. The lack of diversification that could result from consummating our initial business combination with only a single entity may increase the effect on us of numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be solely dependent upon the performance of a single business. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the financial services and business services industries and may expose us to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations or that have diversified operations. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously effect our initial business combination with several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need each seller to agree that our closing is contingent on the simultaneous closings with the other businesses, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete our initial business combination. With multiple businesses, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the target companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination or an extension of the time period within which we must complete an initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder the right to 24 Table of Contents have its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against such business combination or the extension period and then exercises its conversion rights to receive a pro rata share of the trust account if the business combination or the extension period is approved, and in the case of the business combination is also consummated and the public stockholder holds its shares through the consummation of our initial business combination. Such holder must both vote against such business combination or the extension period and elect to convert its shares by notifying us of such election to convert at the appropriate time, as described in the proxy statement in connection with the extension vote or our initial business combination. In the case of the initial business combination, we will be permitted to proceed with our initial business combination only if we are able to confirm that we have sufficient funds to pay the consideration to close the business combination plus all sums due to our public stockholders who vote against the business combination and duly exercise their right to elect to convert their shares for cash. Accordingly, if our initial business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many public stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of public stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. The conversion rights, on a cumulative basis, afforded to the public stockholders (including our sponsors and our directors to the extent they have purchased shares in the open market) may result in the conversion into cash of up to 35% (minus one share) of the aggregate number of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Therefore, as much as $122,009,990 (plus the converting stockholders’ share of all accrued interest after distribution of interest income on the trust account balance to us for working capital and tax obligations) may be required to fund the exercise of conversion rights. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate our initial business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our initial business combination. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our stock as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our stock to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at a higher than desirable level. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Unlike other blank check companies, we may proceed with our initial business combination even if public stockholders owning up to 35% (minus one share) of the shares sold in our initial public offering, on a cumulative basis, exercise their conversion rights. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. We may proceed with our initial business combination as long as public stockholders owning less than 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering, on a cumulative basis, including the shares as to which conversion rights were exercised in connection with the stockholder vote, if any, required to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for an extension of the time period within which we must complete our initial business combination and the stockholder vote required to approve our initial business combination, both vote against the initial business combination and/or extended period, as applicable, and exercise their conversion rights. Accordingly, public stockholders holding up to 35% (minus one share) of the shares sold in our initial public offering, or 12,249,999 shares of common stock, may vote both against our initial business combination or the extension of the time period within which we must consummate an initial business combination and exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 35% (minus one share) and imposed the 10% restriction for any one stockholder or group of stockholders in order to reduce the likelihood that a small number of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing our initial business combination and/or extending the time period within which we must consummate our initial business combination even if such business combination or extension is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. While there are several other offerings similar to ours which include conversion provisions greater than 20% or 30%, a 20% or 30% threshold has generally been customary and standard for offerings 25 Table of Contents similar to ours. The conversion threshold of 35% will make it easier for us to consummate our initial business combination with which you may not agree. Our initial business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many public stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of public stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of public stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following our initial business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. We may be unable to obtain additional financing, if required, to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of the target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including the interest earned on the proceeds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination, because we have not yet identified any prospective target business, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, or the obligation to convert into cash a significant number of shares from dissenting stockholders, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate our initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our founders, sponsors, officers or directors is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after our initial business combination. Our founders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote, including the vote on our initial business combination. Upon consummation of our initial public offering, our founders owned approximately 15% of our outstanding shares of common stock. In addition, our sponsors have entered into agreements with Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in accordance with the guidelines of Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act pursuant to which they have placed limit orders for up to an aggregate of $25.0 million of our common stock during the buyback period. Our founders have agreed to vote the founders’ common stock (i) in the same manner as the majority of the votes cast by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholder meeting (a) in connection with the vote required to approve our initial business combination and (b) in connection with the vote required to approve an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for an extension of our corporate existence to up to August 26, 2010 in the event we have entered into a definitive agreement for, but have not yet consummated, our initial business combinations, and (ii) in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence in connection with a vote to approve our initial business combination. Each of our founders, sponsors, officers and directors has also agreed that if it acquires shares of common stock in or following our initial public offering, including, with respect to our sponsors, pursuant to the limit order described above, it will vote all such shares in favor of our initial business 26 Table of Contents combination, in favor of an extension of our corporate existence for up to August 26, 2010 and in favor of an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence. Assuming that the limit orders are completed in full at a purchase price equal to $9.96 per share (the amount per share placed in the trust account upon the consummation of our initial public offering) and that no other shares of our common stock are purchased by our founders, sponsors, officers or directors, at the time the limit order is completed, our founders, sponsors, officers and directors will hold approximately 20.7% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock (assuming no conversion of shares in connection with a vote, if any, on an extension period) prior to the stockholder vote relating to an initial business combination. Consequently, our founders may exert substantial influence in connection with the vote on our initial business combination. While our founders did not purchase units in our initial public offering, they are not prohibited from purchasing our common stock in the secondary market in addition to those that may be purchased pursuant to the limit orders. If they do, our founders will have an even greater influence on the vote taken in connection with our initial business combination or an extension period. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. There may not be an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting of stockholders, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our founders will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our founders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. Our sponsors’ purchase of common stock in the open market pursuant to the limit orders may support the market price of the common stock and/or warrants during the buyback period and, accordingly, the termination of the support provided by such purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock and/or warrants. Our sponsors have entered into agreements with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act, pursuant to which they have placed limit orders to purchase any of our shares of common stock offered for sale (and not purchased by another investor) at or below a price equal to the per share amount held in our trust account as reported in our initial preliminary proxy statement filed with the SEC relating to our initial business combination, until the earlier of the expiration of the buyback period or until such purchases reach $25.0 million in total. Our sponsors will not have any discretion or influence with respect to such purchases and will not be able to sell or transfer any common stock purchased pursuant to the limit order agreements until 180 days following the consummation of our initial business combination. Consequently, if the market does not view our initial business combination positively, these purchases may have the effect of counteracting the market’s view of our initial business combination, which would otherwise be reflected in a decline in the market price of our securities. The termination of the support provided by these purchases may materially adversely affect the market price of our securities. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to the public stockholders, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, provided that the last reported sales price of our common stock equals or exceeds $13.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading day period ending on the third business day prior to proper notice of such redemption provided that on the date we give notice of redemption and during the entire period thereafter until the time we redeem the warrants, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force the public stockholders (i) to exercise their warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be 27 Table of Contents disadvantageous for the public stockholders to do so, (ii) to sell the public stockholders’ warrants at the then current market price when the public stockholders might otherwise wish to hold their warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the public stockholders’ warrants. Our management’s ability to require holders of our warrants to exercise such warrants on a cashless basis will cause holders to receive fewer shares of common stock upon their exercise of the warrants than they would have received had they been able to exercise their warrants for cash. If we call our warrants for redemption after the redemption criteria described in the final prospectus relating to our initial public offering have been satisfied, our management will have the option to require any holder that wishes to exercise its warrant to do so on a “cashless basis.” In such event, each holder would pay the exercise price by surrendering the warrants for that number of shares of common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (x) the product of the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrants, multiplied by the difference between the exercise price of the warrants and the “fair market value” and (y) the fair market value. The “fair market value” shall mean the average reported last sales price of our common stock for the ten trading days ending on the third trading day prior to the date on which notice of redemption is sent to the holders of the warrants. If our management chooses to require holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, the number of shares of common stock received by a holder upon exercise will be fewer than it would have been had such holder exercised his warrant for cash. This will have the effect of reducing the potential “upside” of the holder’s investment in our company. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect our initial business combination. We issued the founders’ warrants to purchase 6,176,471 shares of common stock as part of the sale of the founders’ units and warrants to purchase 35,000,000 shares of common stock as part of the units offered in our initial public offering. We also issued the sponsors’ warrants to purchase 8,600,000 shares of common stock in a private placement simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering. Such purchase was a condition to the completion of our initial public offering pursuant to the underwriting agreement entered into between the underwriters and us. If we issue common stock to complete our initial business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of any warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete our initial business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of the sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to the public stockholders’ holdings. If our founders or sponsors exercise their registration rights with respect to their founders’ common stock, founders’ warrants or sponsors’ warrants and the underlying shares of common stock, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect our initial business combination. Concurrently with the consummation of our initial public offering, we entered into a registration rights agreement with our founders with respect to securities held by them from time to time, including the founders’ units, founders’ common stock, founders’ warrants and the sponsors’ warrants and underlying shares and any shares purchased pursuant to the limit orders. The registration rights agreement provides that, in certain instances, these holders (and their affiliates and other permitted transferees) may require us to register any of our securities held by them on a registration statement filed under the Securities Act. The registration rights will become exercisable with respect to the securities at any time after our initial business combination, provided that 28 Table of Contents any such registration statement would not become effective until after the lock-up period applicable to the securities being registered, and provided further that with respect to the founders’ warrants, such warrants must also have become exercisable. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If the founders and/or sponsors exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 6,176,471 shares of common stock and 14,776,471 warrants (as well as 14,776,471 shares of common stock underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the stockholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into our initial business combination with us or may request a higher price for their securities because of the potential negative effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our common stock. If we effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States. If we do, we will be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. If we effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect our initial business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for 29 Table of Contents investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete our initial business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we have invested the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust are invested by the account agent only in U.S. “government securities,” defined as any Treasury Bill issued by the United States having a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that only invest in such “government securities” having a maturity of 180 days or less. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. As of December 31, 2008, the proceeds held in trust were invested in the “Dreyfus Treasury Prime Cash Management” money market fund, a fund which invests exclusively in U.S. Treasury securities. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete our initial business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may not be able to complete our initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. We will provide stockholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials sent to stockholders to assist them in assessing the target business. In all likelihood, these financial statements will need to be prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. We cannot assure you that any particular target business identified by us as a potential acquisition candidate will have financial statements prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles or that the potential target business will be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with or reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. 30 Table of Contents Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to the Financial Services and Business Services Industries Business combinations with companies with operations in the financial services and business services industries entail special considerations and risks. If we are successful in completing our initial business combination with a target business with operations in the financial services and business services industries, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: Recent turmoil across various sectors of the financial markets may negatively impact our ability to complete a business combination. Recently, the various sectors of the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by the disruption in credit markets and availability of credit and other financing, the failure, bankruptcy, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, they may have a material adverse effect on our ability to complete a business combination, particularly in the event that we are required to obtain additional debt financing in order to complete a proposed combination. In addition, potentially attractive targets for a business combination may be unwilling to pursue a transaction in the near term if current economic conditions have decreased the value of their business and, as a result, the consideration they would receive in a transaction. The financial services and portions of the business services industries face substantial regulatory and litigation risks and conflicts of interest, and, after the consummation of our initial business combination with a company in the financial services or business services industries, we may face legal liability and reduced revenues and profitability if our services are not regarded as compliant or for other reasons. The financial services and portions of the business services industries are subject to extensive regulation. Many of the regulatory bodies with responsibility for those industries, including U.S. and other government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, as well as state securities commissions, insurance regulators and attorneys general, are empowered to conduct administrative proceedings and investigations that can result in, among other things, censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, prohibitions against engaging in some lines of business, suspension or termination of licenses or the suspension or expulsion of a broker-dealer, investment adviser or insurance distributor. The requirements imposed by regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers, policyholders and other third parties who deal with financial services and business services firms and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Regulations and 31 Table of Contents investigations may result in limitations on our activities, such as the restrictions imposed on several leading securities firms as part of a settlement these firms reached with federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory organizations in 2003 to resolve investigations into equity research analysts’ alleged conflicts of interest. Banks domiciled or operating in the United States and their holding companies are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by applicable federal and state banking agencies. Many of these regulations are intended to protect parties other than stockholders, such as depositors. If we were to acquire a bank, these regulations may limit our operations significantly and control the methods by which we conduct our business, including our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices and dividend policy. In addition, banks and their holding companies generally are subject to rigorous capital requirements and may be examined on a regular basis for their general safety and soundness and compliance with various federal and state legal regimes, including, but not limited to, the Community Reinvestment Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act. Failure to comply with these requirements or receive a satisfactory examination may subject a bank to informal or formal agreements, such as a memorandum of understanding, deferred prosecution agreement or cease-and-desist order, and may also result in the assessment of civil monetary penalties or the limitation of expansionary activities at both the bank and holding company levels. Outside the United States, banks and their stockholders are subject to similar extensive regulation and supervision relating to the conduct of business, capital requirements, safety and soundness and compliance. Governmental and self-regulatory organizations, the Investment Dealers Association and the Mutual Fund Dealers Association, the SEC, FINRA and national securities exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange, impose and enforce regulations on broker-dealers, investment banking firms, investment advisers and similar financial services and business services companies. Self-regulatory organizations adopt rules, subject to approval by the SEC, that govern aspects of the financial services and business services industries and conduct periodic examinations of the operations of registered investment dealers, broker-dealers and investment advisers. For example, U.S. broker-dealers are subject to rules and regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business including: sales methods and trade practices; use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities; capital structures; recordkeeping; the preparation of research; the extension of credit; and the conduct of officers and employees. The types of regulations to which investment advisers are subject are also extensive and include: minimum capital requirements, recordkeeping; fee arrangements; client disclosure; custody of customer assets; and the conduct of officers and employees. Investment advisors and broker-dealers outside the United States are often subject to similar regulation and supervision. The SEC, FINRA and various regulatory agencies also have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities brokerage firms. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion from Investment Dealers Association and FINRA and other regulatory bodies, which ultimately could prevent any broker-dealers that we acquire or acquire control of from performing as a broker-dealer. In addition, a change in the net capital rules, the imposition of new rules or any unusually large charge against net capital could limit the operations of broker-dealers, which could harm our business if we were to consummate our initial business combination with a securities brokerage firm. Similar capital requirements apply to insurance companies. For example, in the United States, under laws adopted by individual states, insurers engaged in certain lines of business are subject to risk based capital requirements. Insurers having less total adjusted capital than that required under the risk based capital laws are subject to varying degrees of regulatory action, depending on the level of capital inadequacy. Maintaining appropriate levels of statutory surplus is also considered important by state insurance regulatory authorities. Failure by an insurance company to maintain certain levels of statutory surplus could result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement. In addition, insurance companies are subject to extensive regulation and supervision in the jurisdictions in which they do business. For example, in the United States, state insurance departments have broad powers with 32 Table of Contents respect to such things as: licensing companies to transact business; authorizing lines of business; imposing dividend limitations; licensing agents and distributors of insurance products; restricting companies’ ability to enter and exit markets; mandating certain insurance benefits; restricting companies’ ability to terminate or cancel coverage; requiring companies to provide certain types of coverage; regulating premium rates, including the ability to increase premium rates; approving policy forms; regulating trade, marketing, sales and claims practices; imposing privacy requirements; establishing reserve requirements and solvency standards; restricting certain transactions between affiliates; and regulating the type, amounts and valuation of investments. In recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial services and business services firms has been increasing. After our initial business combination, our engagement agreements or arrangements may include provisions designed to limit our exposure to legal claims relating to our services, but these provisions may not protect us or may not be adhered to in all cases. We may also be subject to claims arising from disputes with employees for alleged discrimination or harassment, among other things. The risk of significant legal liability is often difficult to assess or quantify and its existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. As a result, we may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business. Financial services and business services firms are subject to numerous conflicts of interest or perceived conflicts of interest. We will need to adopt various policies, controls and procedures to address or limit actual or perceived conflicts and regularly seek to review and update our policies, controls and procedures. However, these policies, controls and procedures may result in increased costs, additional operational personnel and increased regulatory risk. Failure to adhere to these policies and procedures may result in regulatory sanctions or client litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services and business services industries in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. After the consummation of our initial business combination, we will face strong competition from financial services and business services firms, many of whom have the ability to offer clients a wider range of products and services than we may be able to offer, which could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. After consummation of our initial business combination in the financial services or business services industry, we will compete with other firms—both domestic and foreign—on a number of factors, including the quality of our employees, transaction execution, our products and services, innovation, reputation and price. We may fail to attract new business and we may lose clients if, among other reasons, we are not able to compete effectively. We will also face significant competition as result of a recent trend toward consolidation in these industries. In the past several years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the financial services and business services industries. In particular, since the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act in 1999, which reduced barriers to banks providing a wide range of financial services, a number of large commercial banks, insurance companies and other broad-based financial services and business services firms have established or acquired broker-dealers or have merged with other financial institutions. Many of these firms have the ability to offer a wide range of products such as loans, deposit-taking and insurance, brokerage, investment management and investment banking services, which may enhance their competitive position. They also have the ability to support investment banking with commercial banking, insurance and other financial services and business services revenue in an effort to gain market share, which could result in pricing pressure on other businesses. We believe, in light of increasing industry consolidation and the regulatory overhaul of the financial services and business services industries, that competition will continue to increase from providers of financial services and business services products. 33 Table of Contents The financial services and business services industries have inherent risks, which may affect our net income and revenues. The financial services and business services industries are, by their nature, subject to numerous and substantial risks, including volatile trading markets and fluctuations in the volume of market activity. Consequently, our net income and revenues are likely to be subject to wide fluctuations, reflecting the effects of many factors, including: • general economic conditions; • securities market conditions; • the level and volatility of interest rates and equity prices; • competitive conditions; • liquidity of global markets; • international and regional political conditions; • regulatory and legislative developments; • monetary and fiscal policy; • investor sentiment; • availability and cost of capital; • technological changes and events; • outcome of legal proceedings; • changes in currency values; • inflation; • credit ratings; and • the size, volume and timing of transactions. These and other factors could affect the stability and liquidity of securities and futures markets, and the ability of issuers, other securities firms and counterparties to perform their obligations. A reduced volume of securities and futures transactions and reduced market liquidity generally result in lower revenues from principal transactions and commissions. Lower price levels for securities may result in a reduced volume of transactions and may also result in losses from declines in the market value of securities held in proprietary trading and underwriting accounts, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, or in markets influenced by sustained periods of low or negative economic growth, including the risk of losses resulting from the ownership of securities, trading and the failure of counterparties to meet commitments. In particular, if we consummate our initial business combination with an investment management firm, our business could be expected to generate lower revenue in a market or general economic downturn. Under a typical arrangement for an investment management business, the investment advisory fees we could receive would be based on the market value of the assets under management. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities would be expected to cause our revenue and income to decline by: • causing the value of the assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory fees; • causing negative absolute performance returns for some accounts which have performance-based incentive fees, resulting in a reduction of revenue from such fees; or 34 Table of Contents • causing some of our clients to withdraw funds from our investment management business in favor of investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity and lower risk, which also would result in lower investment advisory fees. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us or limit our growth. Financial services and business services businesses are dependent on communications and information systems, including those of vendors. Any failure or interruption of these systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could materially adversely affect operating results. After the consummation of our initial business combination, we will need to continue to make investments in new and enhanced information systems. Interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities or adverse consequences from implementing new or enhanced systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock and warrants. As our information system providers revise and upgrade their hardware, software and equipment technology, we may encounter difficulties in integrating these new technologies into our business. Additionally, our systems may be subject to infiltration by unauthorized persons. If our systems or facilities were infiltrated and damaged by unauthorized persons, our clients could experience data loss, financial loss and significant business interruption. If that were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many financial services and business services firms face credit risks which, if not properly managed, could cause revenues and net income to decrease. Many types of financial services and business services firms, including banks and broker-dealers, lend funds to their customers. Among the risks all lenders face is the risk that some of their borrowers will not repay their loans. The ability of borrowers to repay their obligations may be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, including local and general economic and market conditions. A substantial portion of the loans may be secured by liens on real estate or securities. These same factors may adversely affect the value of real estate and securities as collateral. If we enter into our initial business combination with a firm that makes loans, we would maintain an allowance for loan losses to reflect the level of losses determined by management to be inherent in the loan portfolio. However, the level of the allowance and the amount of the provisions would only be estimates based on management’s judgment and regulatory guidance, and actual losses incurred could materially exceed the amount of the allowance or require substantial additional provisions to the allowance, either of which would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 