ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below are not necessarily exhaustive and you are encouraged to perform your own investigation with respect to our company and our business. You should also read the other information included in this Annual Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. Risks Related to Our Business We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently formed development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing our initial business combination with one or more target businesses. If we expend all of the $100,000 in proceeds from our initial public offering not held in trust and interest income earned of up to $4.0 million, subject to adjustment, on the balance of the trust account that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking our initial business combination, but fail to complete such a combination, we will never generate any operating revenues. Failure to complete the merger may result in our liquidation. Our certificate of incorporation requires us to complete the merger, or another business combination, by April 26, 2010 (unless extended by subsequent stockholder vote). If we fail to complete the merger or another business combination during this time period, our corporate existence will automatically cease, except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. If we liquidate before completing the merger or another business combination, there will be no distribution with respect to the warrants, which will expire worthless. In such event, we expect that the per share liquidation distribution for holders of our common stock would be approximately $9.96 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the costs incurred in seeking the merger or another business combination. In addition, we may suffer other adverse consequences if the merger is not completed, including that our business may have been adversely impacted by the failure to pursue other beneficial opportunities due to the focus on the merger, without realizing any of the anticipated benefits of the merger. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors of blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business, we may be deemed to be a “blank check” company under the United States securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange, and we had net tangible assets in excess of $6.75 million upon the consummation of our initial public offering and filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies such as Rule 419. Accordingly, investors will not be afforded the benefits or protections of those rules. Because we are not subject to Rule 419, our units were immediately tradable, we are entitled to withdraw a certain amount of interest earned on the funds held in the trust account prior to the completion of our initial business combination and we have a longer period of time to complete our initial business combination than we would if we were subject to such rule. 9 Table of Contents We have at least six months longer than most other blank check companies to effect an initial business combination and therefore the net proceeds of our initial public offering being held in the trust account may remain in the trust account for a longer period of time than other blank check or special purpose acquisition company offerings before they are released to you. The period of time we have to complete an initial business combination is longer than blank check companies subject to Rule 419, which have 18 months to complete an initial business combination, or other special purpose acquisition companies, which typically have 18 or 24 months to complete an initial business combination. As a result, if we do not complete an initial business combination, the net proceeds of our initial public offering being held in the trust account will remain in trust for a longer period of time than blank check companies subject to Rule 419 or other special purpose acquisition company offerings before they are released to you. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by stockholders may be less than approximately $9.96 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to execute agreements with all vendors and service providers we engage, and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, in which they will waive any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public stockholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that, even if such third parties entered into such agreements with us, they will not challenge the enforceability of these waivers and bring claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. There is also no guarantee that a court would uphold the validity of such agreements. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming tortious interference as a result of our initial business combination. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $9.96 due to claims of such creditors. Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable to ensure that the claims of prospective target businesses, vendors for services rendered or products sold to us, or of third parties, including lenders, with whom we entered into contractual relationships following the consummation of our initial public offering, will not reduce the proceeds in the trust account available for payment to public stockholders or require the return or disgorgement of payments made from the trust account to public stockholders, but only if such prospective target business, vendor or third party does not execute a valid and enforceable waiver. Accordingly, if a claim brought by a prospective target business, vendor or third party did not exceed the amount of funds available to us outside of the trust account or available to be released to us from interest earned on the trust account balance, Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors would not have any obligation to indemnify such claims as they would be paid from such available funds. Even if a claim exceeded such amounts, there will be no liability (1) as to claimed amounts owed to such a prospective target business, vendor or third party who executed a valid and enforceable waiver or (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Based upon representations from Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors as to their accredited investor status (as such term is defined in Regulation D under the Securities Act) and that they have sufficient funds available to them to satisfy their indemnification obligations, we believe they will be able to satisfy any indemnification obligations that may arise given the limited nature of the obligations. We will enforce our rights under the indemnification arrangements against them. However, in the event Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC, Perella Weinberg Partners Group LP and our sponsors have liability to us under these indemnification arrangements, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy their obligations. On December 7, 2009, our sponsors entered into an agreement whereby PWPA and an affiliate will acquire 100% of the issued and outstanding membership units of BNYH BPW and will assume 100% of the interests, rights and 10 Table of Contents obligations under BNYH BPW’s operating agreement on the date that we consummate our initial business combination. In addition to customary indemnification provisions, PWPA has also agreed that, effective as of December 7, 2009, if BPW is required to liquidate or dissolve prior to its initial business combination, PWPA will indemnify BNYH BPW against certain losses arising pursuant to the Letter Agreement, dated as of February 26, 2008, by and among BPW, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., BNYH BPW and Brooklyn NY Holdings LLC. Further, PWPA has agreed to indemnify certain affiliates of BNYH BPW for any losses incurred as a result of the execution by BPW of any documents relating to its initial business combination and/or the negotiation or consummation of any actual or potential initial business combination after December 8, 2009. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public stockholders at least $9.96 per share. Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination by April 26, 2010 (or up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a subsequent stockholder vote), our corporate existence will automatically cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, in which case we will as promptly as practicable thereafter adopt a plan of distribution in accordance with Section 281(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 278 provides that our existence will continue for at least three years after its expiration for the purpose of prosecuting and defending suits, whether civil, criminal or administrative, by or against us, and of enabling us gradually to settle and close our business, to dispose of and convey our property, to discharge our liabilities and to distribute to our stockholders any remaining assets, but not for the purpose of continuing the business for which we were organized. Our existence will continue automatically even beyond the three-year period for the purpose of completing the prosecution or defense of suits begun prior to the expiration of the three-year period, until such time as any judgments, orders or decrees resulting from such suits are fully executed. Section 281(b) will require us to pay or make reasonable provision for all then-existing claims and obligations, including all contingent, conditional, or unmatured contractual claims known to us, and to make such provision as will be reasonably likely to be sufficient to provide compensation for any then-pending claims and for claims that have not been made known to us or that have not arisen but that, based on facts known to us at the time, are likely to arise or to become known to us within ten years after the date of dissolution. Payment or reasonable provision for payment of claims will be made in the discretion of the board of directors based on the nature of the claim and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. Claims may be satisfied by direct negotiation and payment, purchase of insurance to cover the claims, setting aside money as a reserve for future claims, or otherwise as determined by the board of directors in its discretion. Accordingly, we would be required to provide for any creditors known to us at that time or those that we believe could be potentially brought against us within the subsequent ten years prior to distributing the funds held in the trust account to stockholders. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from third parties, including lenders, with whom we entered into contractual relationships following the consummation of our initial public offering, vendors and service providers that we engage after the consummation of our initial public offering (such as accountants, lawyers, investment bankers, etc.) and potential target businesses. We will seek to have all such third parties, vendors and service providers and prospective target businesses execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind they may have in or to any monies held in the trust account. Accordingly, we believe the claims that could be made against us should be limited, thereby lessening the likelihood that any claim would result in any liability extending to the trust. However, we cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability 11 Table of Contents of our stockholders may extend well beyond the third anniversary of the date of distribution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our stockholders amounts owed to them by us. If we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a “preferential transfer” or a “fraudulent conveyance.” As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover all amounts received by our stockholders. Furthermore, because we intend to distribute the proceeds held in the trust account to our public stockholders promptly after our liquidation in the event our initial business combination has not been consummated by April 26, 2010 (or up to August 26, 2010 if extended pursuant to a stockholder vote), this may be viewed or interpreted as giving preference to our public stockholders over any potential creditors with respect to access to or distributions from our assets. Furthermore, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages, by paying public stockholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm report on management’s evaluation of our system of internal controls. A target company may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes- Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal controls. The development of the internal controls of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to the Talbots Transaction The completion of the merger is subject to a number of conditions that are outside our control, including a financing condition. The completion of the merger is subject to a number of conditions including, but not limited to: • Talbots’ receipt of financing in such principal amount that, together with the net proceeds of amounts in our trust account and other available cash, it will have all necessary funds to consummate the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, including the repayment in full of all amounts due or outstanding in respect of (i) all financing agreements between AEON (U.S.A.), Inc., or AEON, and Talbots, (ii) the Support Letter (Financial), dated as of April 9, 2009, from AEON to Talbots, and the Letter of Support, dated as of April 9, 2009, from AEON to Talbots and (iii) all Third Party Credit Facilities (as defined in the agreement by and among us, Talbots, AEON and AEON Co., LTD in Appendix D to the definitive proxy materials filed in connection with the transaction), to pay related fees and expenses and to have, immediately following the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, cash on hand or available to be borrowed under one or more bank credit facilities in an amount sufficient to fund ordinary course working capital and other general corporate purposes, 12 Table of Contents • the successful completion of the warrant exchange offer, which will not be completed unless holders of at least 90% of the warrants issued in our initial public offering participate in the exchange offer and the other conditions to the warrant exchange offer are satisfied, and • the continued effectiveness of, and performance of the parties under, certain agreements including an agreement by and among us, Talbots, AEON and AEON Co., LTD and an agreement with our sponsors. Notwithstanding certain contractual rights of us and Talbots under these agreements, neither we nor Talbots controls AEON or our sponsors. The completion of the merger is also subject to a number of other conditions, including, certain governmental approvals and the absence of a material adverse effect upon Talbots. The merger agreement limits our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger. The merger agreement restricts our ability to pursue alternatives to the merger, including our agreement not to solicit other offers. These restrictions could prevent us from engaging in a transaction that may be more beneficial to our stockholders and warrantholders than the merger. The shares of Talbots common stock to be received by our stockholders and the shares of Talbots common stock to be issued to our warrantholders in the warrant exchange offer, and issuable upon the exercise of Talbots warrants, as a result of the merger will have different rights from the shares of our common stock. Upon the completion of the merger, our stockholders will become Talbots stockholders and their rights as stockholders will be governed by the organizational documents of Talbots. The rights associated with our common stock are different from the rights associated with Talbots common stock and the rights associated with Talbots warrants are different from the rights associated with our warrants. The GE Capital credit facility combined with cash flows from operations may not be sufficient to support operations. As a specialty retailer dependent upon consumer discretionary spending, Talbots has been adversely affected by recent economic conditions, which have substantially impacted sales, margins, cash flows, liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. While the funding received through the completion of the merger and related credit facility with GE Capital are expected to eliminate approaching debt maturities and assist in the recapitalization of Talbots, it does not provide assurance that the current economic environment will improve in the near future or that Talbots will generate positive cash flows from operations. The GE Capital credit facility allows for a maximum borrowing of $200 million, $40 million of which is not available until after the completion of the merger. Going forward, Talbots’ ability to operate profitably and to generate positive cash flows is dependent upon many factors, including improvement in economic conditions and consumer spending and Talbots’ ability to successfully execute its long term financial plan and strategic initiatives. In the event cash flows are not sufficient to support operations, it is uncertain whether the credit facility will be able to provide levels of cash in the amounts or at the time needed. As such, the merger and refinancing does not provide assurance that Talbots’ cash flows from operations will be sufficient to support itself without additional financing or credit availability. There can be no assurance that these alternatives, if needed, would be successfully implemented, in which case it could materially adversely affect the company, its liquidity and results of operations. Our warrantholders may not receive all consideration in the form elected. The number of Talbots warrants to be paid to holders of our warrants in the warrant exchange offer is fixed, with 17,500,000 of our warrants (equal to 50% of our warrants held by public warrantholders) to be exchanged for Talbots warrants and all remaining warrants that participate in the warrant exchange offer to be exchanged for shares of Talbots common stock. Therefore, elections will be subject to proration if holders of our warrants, in 13 Table of Contents the aggregate, elect to receive more than the maximum amount of consideration to be paid in the form of Talbots common stock or Talbots warrants, as the case may be. Accordingly, some of the consideration warrantholders receive in the offer may differ from the type of consideration selected and such difference may be significant. In addition, instead of receiving any fractional shares of Talbots common stock or fractional Talbots warrants to which our warrantholders otherwise would be entitled, tendering warrantholders will receive an amount in cash (without interest) equal to such holder’s respective proportionate interest in the proceeds from the sale or sales in the open market by the exchange agent for the warrant exchange offer, on behalf of all such holders, of the aggregate fractional shares of Talbots common stock and/or fractional Talbots warrants issued pursuant to the warrant exchange offer. The liquidity of the warrants that are not exchanged will be reduced. In connection with the completion of the warrant exchange offer and the merger, we will make the appropriate filings to delist our warrants from trading on the NYSE Amex. The warrants that are not validly tendered in the warrant exchange offer, if any, will cease to be eligible for trading on any public market. The ability to sell unexchanged warrants will become more limited and could cease to exist due to the reduction in the amount of the warrants outstanding upon completion of the warrant exchange offer and the delisting of the warrants from the NYSE Amex. A more limited trading market might adversely affect the liquidity, market price and price volatility of these securities. If a market for unexchanged warrants develops, these securities may trade at a discount to the price at which the securities would trade if the amount outstanding were not reduced and the securities were not delisted from trading on the NYSE Amex, depending on the market for similar securities and other factors. However, there can be no assurance that an active market in the unexchanged warrants will exist, develop or be maintained or as to the prices at which the unexchanged warrants may be traded. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 