Item 1A. Risk Factors We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing an initial business combination with one or more target businesses. We will not generate any revenues from operating activities until, at the earliest, after completing an initial business combination. We cannot assure you as to when, or if, an initial business combination will occur. If we expend interest income earned from the trust account of up to $5.0 million that may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements in seeking an initial business combination, but fail to complete such an initial business combination, we may never generate any operating revenues. We may have insufficient time or funds to complete our proposed initial business combination, or an alternate business combination if the acquisition proposal is not adopted by our stockholders or the acquisition is otherwise not completed. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, we must liquidate and dissolve if we do not complete a business combination with a business having a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $16.4 million) at the time of such business combination, by February 14, 2010. If the acquisition is not approved by our stockholders, we will not complete the acquisition and may not be able to consummate an alternate business combination within the required time frame. Our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of an initial business combination. The transaction agreement provides that if we fail to consummate our transaction with Iridium Holdings under certain circumstances we may be obligated to pay to Iridium Holdings a break-up fee consisting of $5.0 million in cash, shares of our common stock or a combination thereof, at our election, if we consummate an initial business combination with another party. The requirement to pay this break-up fee will increase the cost of any other business combination. 8 Table of Contents Because of our limited resources and the significant competition for business combination opportunities we may not be able to consummate an attractive initial business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, private equity funds and public and private companies (including blank check companies like ours). Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there should be numerous potential target businesses that we could acquire should we not consummate our proposed transaction with Iridium Holdings, our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. In addition, the fact that only a limited number of blank check companies have completed a business combination may be an indication that there are only a limited number of attractive target businesses available to such entities or that many potential target businesses may not be inclined to enter into business combinations with publicly held blank check companies like ours. Further: • our obligation to seek stockholder approval of a business combination may cause us to be viewed as a less attractive buyer compared to buyers who do not need such approval given the time required to seek such approval and the concomitant potential delay in the consummation of a transaction; • our obligation to convert into cash up to 30% of the shares of common stock held by public stockholders (minus one share) in certain instances may materially reduce the resources available for a business combination; and • our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating an alternative business combination. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of these factors, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. If we are unable to find a suitable target business or structure a transaction acceptable to our public stockholders within the applicable required time period, we will be forced to liquidate. If we liquidate before concluding an initial business combination our warrants will expire worthless. Our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidation distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we liquidate before completing an initial business combination. For a more complete discussion of the effects on our stockholders if we are unable to complete an initial business combination, please see “Item 1. Business — Liquidation If No Business Combination.” If we are unable to consummate our initial business combination, our public stockholders will be forced to wait, at a minimum, until February 14, 2010 before receiving liquidation distributions. We have until February 14, 2010 to consummate our initial business combination. If we do not consummate our initial business combination during such time period, we will liquidate in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. We have no obligation to return funds to public stockholders before such date unless we consummate our initial business combination prior thereto and only then in cases where public stockholders have sought conversion of their shares. Only after February 14, 2010 will public stockholders be entitled to liquidation distributions if we are unable 9 Table of Contents to complete our initial business combination. Further, we may not be able to disburse the funds in our trust account immediately after February 14, 2010 until we have commenced the liquidation process in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the Delaware General Corporation Law. If we have not consummated our initial business combination by February 14, 2010, we will automatically dissolve without need of a stockholder vote. Public stockholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. When we seek stockholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (but not our initial stockholders) the right to have his, her, or its shares of common stock converted to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination but the business combination is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of his, her or it or any other person with whom he, she or it is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, if a stockholder holding more than 10% of our shares votes all of his, her or its shares against a proposed business combination and such proposed business combination is approved, such stockholder will not be able to seek conversion rights with respect to the full amount of his, her or its shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a business combination or that the market price of the common stock will exceed the per-share conversion price. We may require stockholders who wish to convert their shares to comply with specific requirements for conversion that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their conversion rights before the deadline for exercising conversion rights. We may require public stockholders who wish to convert their shares to tender their certificates to our transfer agent before the stockholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. To obtain a physical stock certificate, a stockholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that stockholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical stock certificate. If it takes longer than we anticipate to obtain a physical certificate, stockholders who wish to convert may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their conversion rights and thus will be unable to convert their shares. We may proceed with an initial business combination even if public stockholders owning 11,999,999 of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their conversion rights. This requirement may make it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over stockholder dissent, and may reduce the amount of cash available to us to consummate our initial business combination. When we propose our initial business combination, we will offer each public stockholder (other than our initial stockholders) the right to convert his, her or its common stock to cash if the stockholder votes against the business combination and such business combination is approved and consummated. We will consummate our initial business combination only if (i) a majority of the common stock voted by the public stockholders is voted in favor of the business combination, (ii) a majority of our outstanding common stock is voted in favor of an amendment to our amended and 10 Table of Contents restated certificate of incorporation to allow for our perpetual existence, and (iii) public stockholders owning 30% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights, provided that a public stockholder, together with any affiliate of his, her or it or any other person with whom he, she or it is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, will be restricted from seeking conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, public stockholders holding up to 11,999,999 shares of our common stock may both vote against the initial business combination and exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed initial business combination. We have set the conversion percentage at 30% and limited the percentage of shares that a public stockholder, together with any of his, her or its affiliates or other persons with whom he, she or it is acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, can convert to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing an initial business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public stockholders. However, this may have the effect of making it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over a stockholder dissent. While there are several other blank check companies similar to ours that include conversion provisions greater than 20%, the 20% threshold has generally been common for blank check companies similar to ours. Because we permit a larger number of public stockholders to exercise their conversion rights and have limited the percentage of shares that they, together with any of their affiliates or other persons with whom they are acting in concert or as a partnership, syndicate or other group for the purpose of acquiring, holding or disposing of our securities, can convert, it will make it easier for us to have an initial business combination approved over stockholder dissent. If we do not complete our proposed initial business combination with Iridium Holdings, we may pursue another business combination which may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many stockholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our initial business combination in case a larger percentage of stockholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our initial business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of stockholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following an initial business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. We have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. An effective registration statement must be in place in order for a warrant holder to be able to exercise the warrants, otherwise the warrants will expire worthless. No warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue shares of common stock upon exercise of warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have an effective registration statement under the Securities Act covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them is available. Although we have undertaken in the warrant agreement, and therefore have a contractual obligation, to use our best efforts to have an effective registration statement covering shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to that common stock until the warrants expire or are redeemed, and we intend to comply with our undertaking, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so or that we will be able to prevent the warrants from expiring worthless. Holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants, the market for the warrants may be limited and the warrants may be deprived of any value if there is no effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current. In such event, the holder of a unit will have paid the entire unit purchase price for the common stock contained in the unit as the warrant will be worthless. Holders of warrants 11 Table of Contents will not be entitled to a cash settlement for their warrants if we fail to have an effective registration statement or a current prospectus available relating to the common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants, and holders’ only remedies in such event will be those available if we are found by a court of law to have breached our contractual obligation to them by failing to do so. You will not be entitled to protections normally afforded to investors in blank check companies. Since the net proceeds of our initial public offering are intended to be used to complete an initial business combination with a target business that had not been identified at the time of the initial public offering, we may have been deemed a “blank check” company under the U.S. securities laws. However, since our securities are listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange, and we have net tangible assets in excess of $5.0 million and have filed a current report on Form 8-K, including an audited balance sheet demonstrating this fact, we are exempt from rules promulgated by the SEC to protect investors in blank check companies, such as Rule 419. Accordingly, our stockholders will not receive the benefits or protections of Rule 419. Among other things, this means we will have a longer period of time to complete a business combination in some circumstances than do companies subject to Rule 419. Moreover, offerings subject to Rule 419 would prohibit the release of any interest earned on funds held in the trust account to us unless and until the funds in the trust account were released to us in connection with our consummation of an initial business combination. Under Delaware General Corporation Law, a court could invalidate the requirement that certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation be amended only by unanimous consent of our stockholders; amendment of those provisions could reduce or eliminate the protections they afford to our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains certain requirements and restrictions that will apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that: • at the time of the consummation of our initial public offering, $400.0 million (comprising (i) $392.0 million of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, including approximately $16.4 million of deferred underwriting discounts and commissions and (ii) $8.0 million of the proceeds from the sale of the private placement warrants) were to be placed into the trust account, which occurred at such time; • before the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit the initial business combination to our stockholders for approval; • we will consummate an initial business combination only if it has a fair market value equal to at least 80% of the amount held in trust (less deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such business combination; • we may consummate our initial business combination only if (i) the initial business combination is approved by a majority of the shares of common stock voted by our public stockholders at a duly held stockholders meeting, (ii) an amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence is approved by holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, and (iii) public stockholders owning no more than 30% of the shares (minus one share) sold in our initial public offering have voted against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights; • if our initial business combination is not consummated by February 14, 2010, then our existence will terminate and we will distribute all amounts in the trust account (except for such amounts as are paid to creditors or reserved for payment to creditors in accordance with Delaware General Corporation Law) and any net assets remaining outside the trust account on a pro rata basis to all of our public stockholders; and 12 Table of Contents • we will not enter into our initial business combination with any entity in which our founding stockholder, or any of our officers or directors or their affiliates has a material ownership interest, nor will we acquire any company in which a Greenhill merchant banking fund has a material ownership interest. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires that before the consummation of our initial business combination we obtain unanimous consent of our stockholders to amend these provisions. However, the validity of unanimous consent provisions under Delaware General Corporation Law has not been settled. A court could conclude that the unanimous consent requirement constitutes a practical prohibition on amendment in violation of the stockholders’ statutory rights to amend the corporate charter. In that case, these provisions could be amended without unanimous consent, and any such amendment could reduce or eliminate the protection these provisions afford to our stockholders. However, we view the requirements and restrictions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination as obligations to our stockholders. Neither we nor our board of directors will propose any amendment to those provisions, or support, endorse or recommend any proposal that stockholders amend any of those provisions at any time before the consummation of our initial business combination (subject to any fiduciary obligations our management or board of directors may have). In addition, we believe we have an obligation in every case to structure our initial business combination so that not less than 30% of the shares sold in our initial public offering (minus one share) have the ability to be converted to cash by public stockholders exercising their conversion rights and the business combination will still go forward. If third parties bring claims against us, or if we go bankrupt, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced in which case the per-share liquidation price received by you will be less than $10.00 per share. Our placing of funds in the trust account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although before completion of our initial business combination, we will seek to have all third parties (including any vendors and any other entities with which we enter into a contractual relationship following consummation of our initial public offering but excluding our accountants) or any prospective target businesses enter into valid and enforceable agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any assets held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. It is also possible that such waiver agreements would be held unenforceable and there is no guarantee that the third parties would not otherwise challenge the agreements and later bring claims against the trust account for amounts owed them. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Further, we could be subject to claims from parties not in contract with us who have not executed a waiver, such as a third party claiming wrongful interference with a business relationship as a result of our initial business combination. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims that would take priority over the claims of our public stockholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than the per-share amount of $10.00 in the trust account as of December 31, 2008. Our founding stockholder has agreed that it will be liable to us if and to the extent claims by third parties reduce the amounts in the trust account available for payment to our stockholders in the event of a liquidation and the claims are made by a vendor for services rendered or products sold to us, by a third party with which we entered into a contractual relationship following consummation of our initial public offering or by a prospective target business. However, the agreement entered into by our founding stockholder specifically provides for two exceptions to the indemnity given: there will be no liability (1) as to any claimed amounts owed to a third party who executed a waiver (even if such waiver is subsequently found to be invalid and unenforceable), or (2) as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Furthermore, there could be claims from parties other than vendors, third parties with which we entered into a contractual relationship or target businesses that would not be covered by the indemnity from our founding 13 Table of Contents stockholder, such as stockholders and other claimants who are not parties in contract with us who file a claim for damages against us. Based on a review of publicly available financial statements, we believe that our founding stockholder is capable of funding its indemnity obligations, even though we have not asked them to reserve for such an eventuality. We cannot assure you, however, that our founding stockholder would be able to satisfy those obligations. In addition, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you that we will be able to at least $10.00 per share to our public stockholders. Finally, any withdrawal by us of interest income earned on the trust account, but not yet withdrawn, will reduce the per share liquidation amount. At December 31, 2008, we had the right to withdraw approximately $1.8 million of such interest. Limited ability to evaluate the target business’s management We will independently evaluate the quality and experience of the existing management of a target business and will assess whether or not they should be replaced on a case-by-case basis. As an example, a company in weak financial condition may be experiencing difficulties because of its capitalization and not because of its operations, in which case operating management may not need to be replaced. Although we intend to closely scrutinize the management of a prospective target business when evaluating the desirability of effecting an initial business combination with that business, we cannot assure you that our assessment of the target business’s management, including that of Iridium Holdings, will prove to be correct. In addition, we cannot assure you that management of the target business will have the necessary skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. Furthermore, the future role of our executive officers and directors, if any, in the target business cannot presently be stated with any certainty. While it is possible that one or more of our executive officers and directors will remain associated in some capacity with us following our initial business combination, a final determination of their continued involvement with the business upon completion of an initial business combination will be made jointly with our board of directors and based on the facts and circumstances at the time. The goal of our board of directors will be to ensure that they select the best management team to pursue our business strategy. If they determine that the incumbent management of an acquired business should be replaced and that one or more of our executive officers and directors is the best available replacement, it is possible that some of our executive officers or directors will devote some or all of their efforts to our affairs after our initial business combination. Following our initial business combination, we may seek to recruit additional managers to supplement the incumbent management of the target business. We cannot assure you that we will have the ability to recruit additional managers, or that additional managers will have the requisite skills, knowledge or experience necessary to enhance the incumbent management. Our stockholders may be held liable for third parties’ claims against us to the extent of distributions received by them following the termination of our existence. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we will continue in existence only until February 14, 2010. If we consummate our initial business combination before that date, we will seek to amend this provision to permit our continued existence. If we have not completed our initial business combination by that date, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to Section 278 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by those stockholders upon liquidation. However, if the corporation complies with certain procedures intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, the liability of stockholders with respect to any 14 Table of Contents claim against the corporation is limited to the lesser of such stockholder’s pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder. In addition, if the corporation undertakes additional specified procedures, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidation distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders would be barred with respect to any claim on which an action, suit or proceeding is not brought by the third anniversary of the dissolution (or such longer period directed by the Delaware Court of Chancery). While we intend to adopt a plan of distribution making reasonable provision for claims against the company in compliance with the Delaware General Corporation Law, we do not intend to comply with these additional procedures, as we instead intend to distribute the balance in the trust account to our public stockholders as promptly as practicable following termination of our corporate existence. Accordingly, any liability our stockholders may have could extend beyond the third anniversary of our termination. We cannot assure you that any reserves for claims and liabilities that we believe to be reasonably adequate when we adopt our plan of distribution will suffice. If such reserves are insufficient, stockholders who receive liquidation distributions may subsequently be held liable for claims by creditors of the company to the extent of such distributions. Our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in connection with presenting business combination opportunities to us. You should assume that any such conflicts will not be resolved in our favor. All of our current executive officers are also employees of Greenhill, our founding stockholder: Mr. Bok is Co-Chief Executive Officer of Greenhill and a member of the Investment Committee of Greenhill Capital Partners, Mr. Niehaus is the Chairman of Greenhill Capital Partners, and Mr. Rodriguez is Chief Administrative Officer. Each of Messrs. Bok, Niehaus and Rodriguez are also managing directors of Greenhill and may have obligations to clients of Greenhill that may be in conflict or competition with our consummation of an initial business combination. Each of Messrs. Bok, Niehaus and Rodriguez have a duty to present all business combination opportunities within the lines of business in which Greenhill is engaged (financial advisory services and merchant banking) to Greenhill, and Messrs. Bok and Niehaus are directors of, and have fiduciary duties to, companies in which Greenhill funds have invested, which may result in conflicts with our interests. The terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that Greenhill and our officers and directors who are affiliated with Greenhill do not have a fiduciary duty to present corporate opportunities to us. As a result, we will not have any interest in business combination opportunities that come to the attention of Greenhill and such officers and directors and you should assume that if there are conflicting interests regarding any such opportunity, they will not be resolved in our favor. Greenhill may represent either a client or advise a merchant banking fund in competition with us to acquire potential target businesses or potential target businesses, thereby causing conflicts of interest that limit our ability to pursue potential targets other than Iridium Holdings. These conflicts of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Greenhill undertakes a broad range of financial advisory services and merchant banking activities for a wide variety of clients on a global basis, and for its own account. Accordingly, there may be situations in which Greenhill has an obligation or an interest that actually or potentially conflicts with our interests. You should assume that these conflicts will not be resolved in our favor and, as a result, we may be denied certain investment opportunities or may be otherwise disadvantaged in some situations by our relationship to Greenhill. Greenhill currently operates merchant banking businesses in the United States and Europe. Funds advised by Greenhill Capital Partners make equity and equity-related investments in middle-market companies located primarily in North America and the United Kingdom. Such funds generally make controlling or influential minority investments that do not exceed $220.0 million in companies with 15 Table of Contents enterprise values of $50.0 to $500.0 million. Funds advised by Greenhill Venture Partners make early growth stage private equity and equity-related investments primarily in companies that offer technology-enabled services or business information services in the Greater Tri-State Area, which encompasses the region from Eastern Pennsylvania to Northern Connecticut. The fair market value of the businesses in which the funds advised by Greenhill Venture Partners invest is generally so low as to make it highly improbable that a conflict of interest would arise. Similarly, we believe that Greenhill’s other merchant banking funds generally target transactions of a smaller size that would not be suitable for our initial business combination and we understand that the largest equity investment made by the Greenhill merchant banking funds in a single portfolio company, to date, was approximately $78.0 million. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation neither Greenhill nor members of our management or directors who are also employed by Greenhill have any obligation to present us with any opportunity for a potential business combination of which they become aware. Greenhill and/or our management or directors, in their capacities as officers or managing directors of Greenhill or in their other endeavors, may choose to present potential business combinations to the related entities described above, current or future funds or third parties, including clients of Greenhill, before they present such opportunities to us. As a result, you should assume that to the extent any member of our management or any of our directors employed by Greenhill locates a business opportunity suitable for us and another entity to which such person has a fiduciary obligation or pre-existing contractual obligation to present such opportunity, he will first give the opportunity to such other entity or entities, and he will only give such opportunity to us to the extent such other entity or entities reject or are unable to pursue such opportunity. In addition, our other directors may have fiduciary duties or pre-existing contractual obligations that prevent them from presenting otherwise suitable target businesses to us. Our other directors are under no obligation to present opportunities of which they become aware to us, unless such opportunity was expressly offered to the director solely in his capacity as a director of our company. The decline in interest rates has limited the amount available to fund our efforts to consummate our proposed business combination with Iridium Holdings or to search for an alternative target business or businesses since we will depend on interest earned on the trust account to fund such efforts or search, to pay our taxes and to fund our working capital requirements. Of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, only $0.2 million was available to us initially outside the trust account to pay any additional offering expenses and to fund our working capital requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital we may need to identify one or more target businesses, to negotiate and obtain approval of our proposed initial business combination with Iridium Holdings or to identify one or more alternate businesses, as well as to pay any taxes on income from the trust account or to pay franchise taxes that we may owe. We may only withdraw up to $5.0 million of such interest to fund working capital costs associated with an initial business combination. During 2008 we earned approximately $5.6 million of interest income from the trust account of which we have withdrawn approximately $1.2 million for working capital purposes related to an initial business combination and approximately $2.5 million for the payment of federal, state and local income taxes as well as franchise taxes. At December 31, 2008, we had the right to withdraw from the trust account approximately $1.8 million to fund working capital needs related to an initial business combination. Interest rates on short-term obligations have declined significantly in recent months. This decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or obtain approval of our initial business combination. In such event, we may be required to seek loans or additional investments from our founding stockholder, executive officers or directors or from third parties or be forced to liquidate. However, none of our founding stockholder, officers or directors or any third parties is under any obligation to advance funds to us or invest in us in such circumstances. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement warrants will be sufficient to allow us to consummate our initial business combination. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete our proposed initial business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to complete an alternative combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement warrants are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: • of the size of the target business; • the offering proceeds not in trust and funds available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance are insufficient to fund our efforts to consummate a proposed acquisition or to search for and negotiate with a target business; or • we must convert into cash a significant number of shares of common stock owned by public stockholders who elect to exercise their conversion rights, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the combination and seek an alternative target business. In addition, it is possible that we could use a portion of the funds not in the trust account (including amounts we borrowed, if any) to make a deposit, down payment or fund a “no-shop” provision with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we were ultimately required to forfeit such funds, and we had already used up the funds allocated to due diligence and related expenses in connection with the aborted transaction, we could be left with insufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, other potential target businesses. In the case of the proposed business combination with Iridium Holdings, we could be required to pay a break-up fee in certain circumstances. See “-We may have insufficient time or funds to complete our proposed initial business combination, or an alternate business combination if the acquisition proposal is not adopted by our stockholders or the acquisition is otherwise not completed.” Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business combination, we may require additional capital – in the form of debt, equity, or a combination of both – to operate or grow any potential business we may acquire. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such additional capital if it is required. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. None of our officers or directors or any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, our initial business combination. If we issue capital stock or convertible debt securities to complete our initial business combination, your equity interest in us could be reduced or there may be a change in control of our company. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. Immediately after our initial public offering, there were 95,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the founder’s warrants and private placement warrants), and all of the shares of preferred stock available for issuance. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of our common stock or may issue 17 Table of Contents preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through convertible debt securities, to complete a business combination. Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or any preferred stock: • may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; • will likely cause a change in control if a substantial number of our shares of common stock are issued, which may among other things limit our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards we have, and may result in the resignation or removal of our officers and directors; and • may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our common stock. Under the terms of the transaction agreement for the proposed acquisition of Iridium Holdings, we agreed, among other things, to issue to the sellers 36,000,000 shares of our common stock. See “Business – Proposed Initial Business Combination” The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. If we issue debt securities to acquire or finance a target business, our liquidity may be adversely affected and the combined business may face significant interest expense. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to issue debt securities as part of the purchase price for a target business. If we issue debt securities, such issuances may result in an increase in interest expense for the post-combination business and may adversely affect our liquidity in the event of: • a default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay principal and interest obligations on our debt; • an acceleration, which could occur even if we are then current in our debt service obligations if the debt securities have covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, and such covenants are breached without waiver or renegotiation; • a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt securities are payable on demand; or • our inability to obtain any additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to incur indebtedness. We may not obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of acquisition candidates or the fairness of the transaction to our stockholders. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the price we are paying is fair to our public stockholders. In addition, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that any initial business combination we select has a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in the trust account at the time of such business combination (less deferred underwriting discounts and commissions), the threshold value to constitute our initial business combination. If our board of directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value of our initial business combination, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is subject to oversight by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA, or other nationally recognized appraiser with expertise in the specific industry in question, as to the fair market value. If no opinion is obtained, our public stockholders will be relying solely on the judgment of our board of directors. 18 Table of Contents Our initial stockholders control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a stockholder vote, including the vote on our initial business combination. Our initial stockholders have agreed, in connection with the stockholder vote required to approve our initial business combination and the related amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence, to vote the founder’s shares in accordance with the majority of the shares of common stock voted by the public stockholders. Our founding stockholder and each of our executive officers and directors have also agreed that if it, he or she acquires shares of common stock in or following our initial public offering, it, he or she will vote all such acquired shares in favor of our initial business combination and related amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide for our perpetual existence. Assuming that no shares of our common stock are purchased by our founding stockholder or directors following our initial public offering, our initial stockholders will hold approximately 17.5% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock before the stockholder vote relating to an initial business combination. Consequently our initial stockholders may exert substantial influence in connection with the vote on our initial business combination. In addition, as part of our initial public offering, managing directors and senior advisors of our founding stockholder, including certain of our executive officers, purchased an aggregate of 1,247,500 units at the initial public offering price through a directed unit program. While our initial stockholders did not purchase units in our initial public offering, they are not prohibited from purchasing units or our common stock in the secondary market. As a result of any such purchases, our initial stockholders would have an even greater influence on the vote taken in connection with our initial business combination. Our board of directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years, with only one class of directors being elected in each year. We may consummate an initial business combination before there is an annual meeting of stockholders to elect new directors, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. If there is an annual meeting of stockholders, as a consequence of our “staggered” board of directors, only a minority of the board of directors will be considered for election and our initial stockholder will have considerable influence on the outcome of that election. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of the initial business combination. If our current directors remain after our initial business combination they may have conflicts of interest. Our ability to effect our initial business combination successfully will be largely dependent upon the efforts of our executive officers and directors. While we do not expect them to do so, some or all of our directors may remain as directors of the combined entity. Since it is possible that a director may remain after a business combination, a director may have a conflict of interest if such director is more likely to remain as a director or receive an attractive compensation arrangement in connection with a combination with one potential target business versus another. Such interests, if any, may influence the selection of the ultimate target for our initial business combination. The management of the target business may not have experience managing a publicly traded company. Management of a prospective target business may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company and the securities laws, which could increase the time and resources we must expend to assist them in becoming familiar with the complex disclosure and financial reporting requirements imposed on U.S. public companies. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues that may adversely affect the price of our stock. 19 Table of Contents We may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies, which may present certain challenges to us, including the lack of available information about these companies. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effect our initial business combination with one or more privately held companies. By definition, very little public information exists about these companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information. Upon completion of our initial business combination we may compete with one or more businesses in which Greenhill, its affiliates and/or our management have an interest, which could result in a conflict of interest that may adversely affect us. Greenhill merchant banking funds acquire, hold and sell investments in businesses across a broad range of industries. Upon completion of our initial business combination, if consummated, we may compete with one or more of these businesses in which Greenhill and/or its affiliates have an investment or other pecuniary interest, resulting in potential conflicts of interest. Conflicts of interest may also arise where our directors or other members of our management have affiliations with our competitors. In the case of any such conflicts, your interests may differ from those of the Greenhill entity or individual with the conflict, as such entity or individual may have a greater economic interest in our competitor than in us, or may believe that our competitor has better prospects than us. In such event, that entity or individual may devote more resources, including time and attention, to our competitor than to us, which may adversely affect our operations and financial condition and, ultimately, the value of your investment in us. We expect to rely upon our access to Greenhill’s managing directors and senior advisors in completing an initial business combination. We expect that we will depend, to a significant extent, on our access to the managing directors and senior advisors of Greenhill and the information and deal flow generated by Greenhill’s managing directors and senior advisors in the course of their merchant banking and advisory activities and complete our initial business combination, including identifying alternative target businesses if we do not consummate an initial business combination with Iridium Holdings. Consequently, the departure of a significant number of the managing directors and senior advisors of Greenhill could have a material adverse effect on our ability to consummate an initial business combination. The loss of Mr. Bok or Mr. Niehaus could adversely affect our ability to complete our initial business combination. Our ability to consummate a business combination is dependent to a large degree upon Messrs. Bok and Niehaus. We believe that our success depends upon their continued service to us, at least until we have consummated a business combination. Messrs. Bok and Niehaus are, respectively, Co-Chief Executive Officer of Greenhill and Chairman of Greenhill Capital Partners, and each is a managing director of Greenhill. We do not have an employment agreement with either of them, or key-man insurance on their lives. Either or both of them may choose to devote their time to other affairs, or may become unavailable to us for reasons beyond their control, such as death or disability. The unexpected loss of any of their services for any reason could have a detrimental effect on us. We have used resources in researching acquisitions that will not be consummated, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to effect our initial business combination. We expect that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys, and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, including the proposed transaction 20 Table of Contents with Iridium Holdings, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. We have reviewed a number of acquisition opportunities and entered into detailed discussions with several possible target businesses, or their representatives, other than Iridium Holdings. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the transaction for any number of reasons, including reasons beyond our control, such as that more than 30% of the common stock purchased by the public stockholders in our initial public offering vote against our proposed initial business combination and opt to convert their stock into a pro rata share of the trust account, even if a majority of our public stockholders voting approve the proposed initial business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred, which could materially and adversely affect subsequent attempts to consummate an initial business combination. For the year ended December 31, 2008 we have incurred approximately $2.3 million of professional fees related to due diligence work incurred in conjunction with our initial proposed business combination and for other working capital purposes. Interest income from the trust account may not be sufficient to pay for our winding up and liquidation of the trust. We expect that all costs and expenses associated with implementing any plan of distribution, as well as payments to any creditors, would be funded from amounts remaining out of the $0.2 million of proceeds from our initial public offering held outside the trust account and from the up to $5.0 million in interest income that may be earned on the balance of the trust account and may be released to us to fund our working capital requirements. However, if those funds were not sufficient to cover the costs and expenses associated with implementing any plan of distribution, to the extent that there was any interest accrued in the trust account not required to pay income taxes on interest income earned on the trust account balance, we could request that the trustee release to us an additional amount of up to $0.1 million of such accrued interest to pay those costs and expenses. Additional interest may not be available, or if available, may not be sufficient to cover the costs of our liquidation. During 2008 we earned approximately $5.6 million of interest income from the trust account of which we have withdrawn approximately $1.2 million for working capital purposes and approximately $2.5 million for the payment of federal, state and local income taxes as well as franchise taxes. At December 31, 2008, we had the right to withdraw from the trust account approximately $1.8 million to fund working capital needs related to an initial business combination. The funds held in the trust account are subject to market risk. The approximately $401.8 million in the trust account as of December 31, 2008 is invested in government securities (as defined in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940) or in assets which all meet the conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940 with financial institutions with high credit ratings. However, in light of the overall instability of the markets, we can not assure you that the funds in the trust account are not subject to market risk. Because the founder’s shares will not participate in liquidation distributions by us, our executive officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. Holders of the founder’s shares have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the founder’s shares if we liquidate because we fail to complete a business combination. Those shares of common stock and all of the warrants owned by our initial stockholders will be worthless if we do not consummate our initial business combination, which may create a conflict of interest for those holding the founder’s shares and our initial stockholders. Moreover, since Messrs. Bok, Niehaus and Rodriguez as well as all of the managing directors of Greenhill have an ownership interest in Greenhill and consequently an indirect ownership interest in us, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for us and our stockholders. In addition, a subsidiary of Greenhill, holds a $22.9 million convertible subordinated promissory note issued by Iridium 21 Table of Contents Holdings, pursuant to which the Greenhill subsidiary will have the option to convert the note, which will, depending on timing, convert into Iridium Holdings units or our shares of our common stock. These ownership interests may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business and timely completing an initial business combination. The exercise of discretion by our executive officers and directors in identifying and selecting one or more suitable target businesses may result in a conflict of interest when determining whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our stockholders’ best interest. Our executive officers’ and directors’ interests in obtaining reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them may lead to a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for an initial business combination and in the public stockholders’ best interest. Unless we consummate our initial business combination, our founding stockholder, our executive officers and directors and employees of Greenhill will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount of available proceeds not deposited in the trust account and the amount of interest income from the trust account up to a maximum of $5.0 million that may be released to us as working capital. These amounts are based on management’s estimates of the funds needed to finance our operations for the 24 months period from the pricing of the initial public offering and to pay expenses in identifying and consummating our initial business combination. Those estimates may prove to be inaccurate, especially if a portion of the available proceeds is used to make a down payment in connection with our initial business combination or pay exclusivity or similar fees or if we expend a significant portion in pursuit of an initial business combination that is not consummated. Our founding stockholder, executive officers and directors may, as part of any business combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’s owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our founding stockholder, our executive officers and directors or their affiliates could influence our executive officers’ and directors’ motivation in selecting a target business and therefore there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the stockholders’ best interest. We will probably complete only one business combination, if any, with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the private placement warrants, meaning our operations would then depend on a single business. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement warrants will provide us with approximately $383.6 million that we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must involve a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the amount held in our trust account at the time of such business combination (less deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of approximately $16.4 million). We may not be able to acquire more than one target business, if any, because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the amount held in our trust account (less deferred underwriting discounts and commissions). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of common stock and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public 22 Table of Contents offering and the sale of the private placement warrants. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in diversified industries or industry segments. If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may face increased risks of subsequent write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairments or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. To meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. We may have limited time to conduct such due diligence due to the requirement that we complete our initial business combination by February 14, 2010. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, this diligence may not uncover all material issues relating to a particular target business, and factors outside of the target business and outside of our control may later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to write down or write off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, if we report charges of this nature, negative market perceptions about us or our common stock may arise. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it more difficult to effect our initial business combination. The units sold in our initial public offering included warrants to purchase 40,000,000 shares of common stock, and our initial stockholders hold founder’s warrants to purchase 8,500,000 shares of common stock. We also sold our founding stockholder private placement warrants to purchase an aggregate of 8,000,000 shares of our common stock prior to the closing of our initial public offering. If we issue common stock to complete our initial business combination, the potential issuance of additional shares of common stock on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of any warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding shares of our common stock and reduce the value of the shares issued to complete our initial business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of the sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our common stock or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders and certain employees of Greenhill may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our initial stockholders exercise their registration rights with respect to the founder’s units and private placement warrants in full, there will be an additional 25,000,000 shares of common stock, including 16,500,000 shares of common stock issuable on exercise of the founder’s warrants and private 23 Table of Contents placement warrants’ eligible for trading in the public market. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our common stock that is expected when the securities owned by our initial stockholders are registered. If adjustments are made to the warrants, you may be deemed to receive a taxable distribution without the receipt of any cash. As discussed under “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities – Dividend Policy,” we do not anticipate that any dividends will be paid in the foreseeable future. If at any time during the period you hold warrants, however, we were to pay a taxable dividend to our stockholders and, in accordance with the anti-dilution provisions of the warrants, the conversion rate of the warrants were increased, that increase would be deemed to be the payment of a taxable dividend to you to the extent of our earnings and profits, notwithstanding the fact that you will not receive a cash payment. If the conversion rate is adjusted in certain other circumstances (or in certain circumstances, there is a failure to make adjustments), that adjustment or failure could also result in the deemed payment of a taxable dividend to you. If you are a non-U.S. holder of a warrant, any resulting withholding tax attributable to deemed dividends could be collected from other amounts payable or distributable to you. You should consult your tax adviser regarding the proper treatment of any adjustments to the warrants. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to our warrant holders. Subject to there being an effective registration statement covering the shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to them being available, we may redeem the warrants issued in our initial public offering at any time after the warrants become exercisable, in whole and not in part, at a price of $0.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days’ prior written notice of redemption, and if and only if, the last sale price of our common stock equals or exceeds $14.25 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30-trading-day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Redemption of the warrants could force the warrant holders (i) to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, (ii) to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants or (iii) to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Failure to complete the proposed acquisition with Iridium Holdings, or any other proposed acquisition in the future, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to attract another acquisition candidate, resulting, ultimately, in the disbursement of the trust proceeds, causing stockholders to experience a loss on their investment. If an acquisition is not completed for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including: • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects a market assumption that the acquisition will be consummated; • costs related to the acquisition, such as legal and accounting fees and the costs of the opinion issued in connection with the acquisition, must be paid even if the acquisition is not completed; and • charges will be made against our earnings for transaction-related expenses, which could be higher than expected. 24 Table of Contents Such decreased market price and added costs and charges of the failed acquisition, together with the history of failure in consummating an acquisition, may make it more difficult for us to attract another target business, resulting, ultimately, in the disbursement of the trust proceeds, causing stockholders to experience a loss on their investment in our securities. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities, which could make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are currently listed on the NYSE Amex. We intend to seek to have our securities approved for listing on the NYSE following completion of the proposed acquisition of Iridium Holdings. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Amex, or that our securities will be approved for listing on the NYSE. Additionally, until such time as we voluntarily delist from the NYSE Amex in connection with our acquisition of Iridium Holdings, the NYSE Amex may require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to meet those initial listing requirements at that time. We are not currently considered to be in compliance with Section 803 of the NYSE Amex Company Guide in that a majority of our board of directors are not “independent” as defined therein and our audit committee does not consist of at least three “independent” directors. We expect to cure both of these deficiencies upon consummation of our initial business combination. We cannot assure you that the initial business combination will occur or that these deficiencies will be cured. If we fail to have our securities listed on the NYSE and the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading, we could face significant consequences including: • limited availability for market quotations for our securities; • reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If our proposals are not approved or if stockholders holding 30% or more of the initial public offering shares vote against the acquisition proposal and properly exercise their conversion rights, we may ultimately be forced to liquidate, in which case you may receive less than the per share amount currently in the trust account for your common stock and your warrants may expire worthless. If our proposals for an initial business combination are not approved or if stockholders holding 30% or more of our initial public offering shares vote against the acquisition proposal and properly exercise their rights to convert their initial public offering shares into cash, our acquisition will not be completed and we will not convert any initial public offering shares into cash. While we will continue to search for a suitable target business, a failure to complete the proposed acquisition of Iridium Holdings could negatively impact the market price of our common stock and may make it more difficult for us to attract another acquisition candidate and any future acquisition candidates may use our time constraints to our detriment in negotiating acquisition terms. If we do not complete a business combination by February 14, 2010, we will be required to liquidate. In any liquidation, all amounts in the trust account plus any other net assets not used for or reserved to pay obligations and claims or other costs relating to or arising from our plan of distribution, would the be distributed on a pro rata basis to the holders of our initial public offering shares. The proceeds deposited in the trust account could, however, become subject to claims of our creditors that are in preference to the claims of our stockholders. 25 Table of Contents If we acquire a target business with operations located outside the U.S., we may encounter risks specific to other countries in which such target business operates. If we acquire a company that has operations outside the U.S., we will be exposed to risks that could negatively impact our future results of operations following our initial business combination. The additional risks we may be exposed to in these cases include, but are not limited to: • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the U.S.; • cultural and language differences; • foreign exchange controls; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; • deterioration of political relations with the U.S.; and • new or more extensive environmental regulation. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, we will not be able to complete an initial business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to stockholders. Our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (less deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of our initial business combination. We will be required to provide historical and/or pro forma financial information to our stockholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, as approved by the International Accounting Standards Board, or IASB, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (U.S.), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have or is unable within a reasonable period of time to provide financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or reconciled to, U.S. GAAP or in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. You should review our preliminary proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in addition to the risk factors set forth above. It contains a description of risks associated with our proposed transaction with Iridium Holdings and the business of Iridium Holdings. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made statements under the captions “Business”, “Risk Factors”, and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and in other sections of this Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our management’s expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other 26 Table of Contents characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words “anticipates,” “believe,” “continue,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intends,” “may,” “might,” “plan,” “possible,” “potential,” “predicts,” “project,” “should,” “would” and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K may include, for example, statements about our: • ability to complete our initial business combination, whether with Iridium Holdings or another target business; • success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our executive officers, key employees or directors following our initial business combination; • executive officers and directors allocating their time to other businesses and potentially having conflicts of interest with our business or in approving our initial business combination, as a result of which they would then receive expense reimbursements; • potential ability to obtain additional financing to complete a business combination; • pool of prospective target businesses; • ability of our executive officers and directors to generate a number of potential investment opportunities; • potential change in control if we acquire one or more target businesses for stock; • public securities’ potential liquidity and trading; • listing or delisting of our securities from the NYSE Amex or the ability to have our securities listed on the NYSE Amex or the NYSE following our initial business combination; • use of proceeds not held in the trust account or available to us from interest income on the trust account balance; or • financial performance following our initial business combination. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under the heading “Risk Factors.” Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of the year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Act of 1934. 27 Table of Contents 