D. Risk Factors Risks related to our business Declines in domestic and international oil and natural gas prices, or domestic and international exploration, drilling and production activities, would adversely affect our profitability. Demand for our OCTG products depends significantly on the number of domestic and worldwide oil and gas wells drilled, completed and reworked, as well as the depth and drilling conditions of these wells. The level of such drilling activities in turn depends on the level of capital spending by major oil and gas companies. A decline in domestic and worldwide oil and gas exploration, drilling and production activities would adversely affect our results of operations. Decreased demand for our products would be expected to result not only from periods of decreased capital spending and activities in exploration, drilling and production, but also from the resulting build up of customer inventory, as certain OCTG products associated with idle rigs such as tubing can be reused on active rigs, making new purchases unnecessary. Capital spending on OCTG used for oil and natural gas exploration, drilling and production activities is driven in part by the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and the perceived stability and sustainability of those prices. Our revenues and net income have increased significantly in the past three years, due in part to increases in oil and natural gas prices, which have also reached historically high levels during this period. However, oil and natural gas prices are also subject to significant volatility due to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in the supply and demand 4 Table of Contents for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, world events, regulatory control (including by the PRC government), political developments in petroleum producing regions and the price and availability of alternative energy sources. We can provide no assurance that oil and natural gas prices will not decline from the historical highs reached in recent periods or that such prices will otherwise remain at sufficiently high levels to support demand for our products. Any declines in the price of oil and natural gas, even for a short period of time, may reduce or curtail expenditures by oil and gas companies in connection with exploration, drilling and production activities, which may result in lower sales volumes and prices for our products in the PRC and overseas and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases in steel prices. Steel is the principal raw material for our products. Raw materials accounted for 91.5%, 86.1% and 80.9% of our cost of revenues in 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Any increase in the steel price could reduce our profit margin if we are unable to pass such increased costs on to our customers. Since the end of 2003, the price of steel has increased substantially due in part to increasing demand which has significantly affected our gross margin. We experienced a substantial increase in steel prices also in 2007, and we expect the steel price to continue to rise in 2008. The price of steel has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our cost of revenues. If we are unable to manage our purchases of steel at prices acceptable to us or if the prices of steel increase significantly and we are not able to pass on all or part of any such price increases to our customers, our profit margins may decrease and our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results may be subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may result in significant volatility in, and otherwise adversely affect, our revenue and profitability. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our net revenues have generally decreased in the first quarter and the third quarter of the year. Our customers tend to build up their inventories of our products during the fourth quarter in anticipation of the Chinese New Year holiday which generally takes place in late January or early February of the following year. In addition, business activities in China generally slow down in the first quarter of each year during the Chinese New Year period, which adversely affects our sales and results of operations during that period. Hot summer months may also impact the productivity of the employees working in our production facilities. The above-described seasonal trends that we have experienced in the past may not apply to, or be indicative of, our future operating results. If we do not meet financial expectations of securities analysts or investors, the pr ice of our ADSs may decline. We depend on a limited number of customers, and any loss of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our customers include oil and gas companies in the PRC and abroad. Aggregate sales attributable to our five largest customers represented approximately 71.4%, 60.5% and 55.8% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationships with these customers, or that we will be able to continue to supply products to these customers at current levels or at all. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the oil and gas industry, and any decline in our major customers’ businesses in these markets could lead to a decline in purchase orders from these customers. If any of our key customers were to substantially reduce the size or amount of the orders they place with us or were to terminate their business relationship with us entirely, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain orders from other customers to replace any su ch lost sales on comparable terms or at all. If any of these relationships were to be so altered and we were unable to obtain replacement orders, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents Our sales contracts typically have a term of less than six months and, as a result, customers may reduce their orders or terminate their relationships with us almost immediately. Sales of our products are typically conducted either through purchase orders or sales contracts with a term less than six months. As a result, our customers may choose to terminate their relationship with us after completion of the shipment or expiration of the contract, as the case may be. Our customers are also not obligated in any way to continue placing orders with us at historical levels or at all. If any of our customers, particularly our key customers, were to materially reduce their orders with us or were to terminate entirely their business relationship with us with short notice, we might not have sufficient time to locate alternative customers and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our products will pass the periodic inspection by API or the qualification process of potential customers, and our failure to pass such inspection or qualification will adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We have obtained certificates from API to use the official API monogram on our products to demonstrate that our products meet the API standards. These certificates are subject to periodic inspections by API. Furthermore, our growth strategies include increasing our sales in the PRC domestic market, as well as expanding into international markets such as North America, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Russia. It is standard industry practice that an OCTG manufacturer must first pass a qualification process to become an approved supplier of an oil and gas company before providing OCTG products to that company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary certifications from API or approvals for new products from our existing customers or approvals from any new customers. Even if we can ultimately secure such approvals or certifications, we cannot assure you that such certifications and approvals can be obtained in a timely manner or can be ma intained. If we fail to become an approved supplier of our potential customers, or if we are unable to obtain or maintain such approval in a timely manner, we may not be able to execute our expansion plans and our business prospects and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively in the OCTG industry, our revenue and profits may decrease. We face intense competition in the domestic and international markets in which we operate. Domestically, we face competition from a number of manufacturers that produce OCTG that are similar to ours. Our major domestic competitors include Tianjin Pipe (Group) Corporation, Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation, and Pangang Group Chengdu Iron & Steel Co., Ltd, which are mostly state-owned enterprises. We also face competition from international manufacturers, such as Tenaris in Argentina, Vallourec & Mannesmann Tubes in France, TMK in Russia, Sumitomo and JFE in Japan, and U.S. Steel in the United States. Our major competitors may have longer operating history, larger customer base, stronger customer relationships, greater brand or name recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. Some of our competitors may also be better positioned to develop superior product features and technological innovations and b e able to better adapt to market trends than we are. Our ability to compete depends on, among other things, high product quality, short lead-time, timely delivery, competitive pricing, range of product offerings and superior customer service and support. Increased competition may require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any decrease in the quality of our products or level of our service to our customers or any occurrence of a price war among our competitors and us may adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to remain competitive, we may not be able to increase or even maintain our current share of the OCTG market in China or overseas or continue to achieve our current level of profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our future expansion plans, in particular our plans for international expansion and overseas sales, or in managing our growth. A principal component of our future strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our production capacity and further developing our overseas sales. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, 6 Table of Contents including, but not limited to, our ability to manage expansion and overseas operations, obtain any required financing, achieve operational efficiencies, and secure sufficient access to raw materials. Some of these factors are beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully manage our growth or expand our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may need to increase the number of our employees and enhance our operational and financial systems to handle the increased complexity and the expanded geographical coverage of our operations associated with our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management staff and employees or that our current operational and financial systems and controls will be adequate to accommodate future growth. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to manage these risks effectively, they could impair our ability to expand our business overseas. Our international expansion targets are mature markets in terms of OCTG production. In order for us to succeed, we need to take market share away from the existing suppliers of seamless OCTG in these markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in these competitive markets. Moreover, our plans for international expansion may be hindered by the following: • cultural differences and other difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations; • inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems; • volatility in currency exchange rates; • the risk that foreign countries may impose withholding taxes (or otherwise tax our foreign income or place restrictions on repatriation of profit); • the risk of barriers, such as anti-dumping and other tariffs or other restrictions being imposed on foreign trade; • changes in the political, regulatory, or economic conditions in a foreign country or region; and • the burden of complying with foreign laws and regulations. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our ability to conduct or expand our business overseas would be impaired, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key personnel. Our future success is dependent on the efforts, performance and abilities of our key management team, particularly Mr. Piao Longhua, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Piao founded our company and has extensive industry experience. We do not maintain key man insurance on any of our management personnel. As the OCTG industry in the PRC continues to become more competitive, we expect the competition for management and other skilled personnel to intensify. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees or the loss of any member of our senior management may result in a loss of organizational focus, poor operating execution or an inability to identify and execute potential strategic initiatives such as overseas expansion and new product offerings. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies on our ability to retain and attract experienced sales staff and our ability to maintain and expand our existing sales networks both domestically and overseas. Our experienced sales staff constitutes an essential part of our business. In the domestic PRC market, our sales staff possesses strong technical backgrounds in the OCTG industry, which enable them to 7 Table of Contents provide and deliver on-site technical support to our customers. We rely on our four sales offices located in the Daqing, Changqing, Xinjiang and Sichuan oilfields to directly sell our products to major oilfields in the PRC. In addition to providing on-site services to our customers throughout the sales process and after-sales support, our sales staff also helps us maintain good relationships with our customers. Internationally, we sell our products through our distributors and sales agents. The loss of services of any of our experienced sales staff without timely replacement, the inability to attract and retain sales personnel, or the loss of any of our major distributors or sales agents may have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to maintain our existing sales network, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for a majority of our raw material requirements, and interruption of raw material delivery could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, and in turn result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. Our operations depend on our ability to obtain adequate and quality supplies of our primary raw materials, namely round steel billets and green pipes, in a timely manner. If our suppliers fail to meet our quality standards or our quantity demands, our production and sales volume and our results of operation will be adversely affected. We currently rely on two major suppliers to supply round billets to us with which we have entered into long-term arrangements. See ‘‘