Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following discussion of risks and uncertainties relating to our business and ownership of our securities. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of or that we currently think are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all, or part of your investment. We anticipate that we will incur losses for the foreseeable future. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. If additional capital is not available, we may have to curtail or cease operations. Our business currently is not expected to generate all of the cash that is necessary to finance our operations in the short-term. Subject to the success of our development programs, the continuance of our Testim® royalty payments, and potential future licensing transactions, we will need to raise additional capital to: • fund our research and development programs; • develop and commercialize our product candidates; • enhance existing services; • respond to competitive pressures; and • acquire complementary businesses or technologies. Our future capital needs depend on many factors, including: • the scope, duration and expenditures associated with our research and development programs; • continued scientific progress in these programs; • the amount of royalties or other revenues we are able to earn and collect; • the outcome of potential licensing transactions, if any; • competing technological developments; • our proprietary patent position, if any, in our products; and • the regulatory approval process for our products. We may seek to raise necessary funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or additional strategic alliances and licensing arrangements. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. General market conditions may make it very difficult for us to seek financing 20 Table of Contents from the capital markets. We may be required to relinquish rights to our technology or drug candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us, in order to raise additional funds through an alliance, a joint venture or a licensing arrangement. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay, reduce or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs and reduce overall overhead expenses. These actions would likely reduce the market price of our common stock. Substantially all of our revenues to date have been generated from royalties on Auxilium’s sales of Testim, which is subject to projected generic competition. Should the sales of Testim decline, we may be required to limit, scale back or cease operations. Substantially all of our revenues are derived through royalty income from the only commercialized product utilizing our CPE-215 technology, Testim, which is sold by Auxilium. Testim royalties totaled $18.6 million, $15.1 million and $11.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and the only expenses regarding Testim® that we have incurred during that period have been patent maintenance costs, which have not been material. Though we believe that Auxilium intends to continue commercialization of Testim, sales of this product are subject to the following risks, among others: • pressures from existing or new competing products, including generic products, that may provide therapeutic, convenience or pricing advantages over Testim or may garner a greater share of the market; • growth of the overall androgen market where Testim competes; and • commercialization priorities of Auxilium. In October 2008, we and Auxilium received notice that Upsher-Smith Laboratories filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, containing a paragraph IV certification in which it certified that it believes that its testosterone gel product does not infringe our ‘968 patent. The ‘968 Patent covers a method for maintaining effective blood serum testosterone levels for treating a hypogonadal male using Testim and will expire in January 2025. The ‘968 patent is listed in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations (commonly known as the Orange Book), published by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The paragraph IV certification sets forth allegations that the ‘968 Patent will not be infringed by Upsher-Smith’s manufacture, use or sale of the product for which the ANDA was submitted. On December 4, 2008, we and Auxilium filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Upsher-Smith under the Hatch Waxman Act for infringement of our patent. In June 2009, Upsher-Smith amended its answer to the complaint to include a defense and counterclaim of invalidity of the ‘968 Patent, which we and Auxilium deny. We and Auxilium filed a reply to the counterclaim in July 2009 denying the invalidity of the ‘968 Patent. A patent issued by the Patent and Trademark Office, such as the ‘968 Patent, is presumed valid. As described more fully under Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” in this report, any FDA approval of Upsher-Smith’s proposed generic product will be stayed until the earlier of 30 months beginning on the date of receipt of the paragraph IV certification (April 2011) or an adverse decision in our patent infringement lawsuit. Should Testim sales be adversely impacted by any of the above risks, our revenues will be reduced, which may force us to delay our current plans to develop other product candidates. In addition, our royalty income is dependent upon our ability to maintain our intellectual property claims for our CPE-215 technology that is used in the Testim product. Should we be unable to maintain our intellectual property position with regards to CPE-215, our royalty income would be impaired. We cannot give any assurance that Nasulin will advance in clinical trials or will receive regulatory approval. We are currently conducting additional analyses of the data from the Nasulin clinical studies to determine the appropriate next steps for the Nasulin program. We may decide not to conduct further trials of Nasulin. If we do conduct trials, the trials may not be successful and Nasulin may never receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our clinical development program for Nasulin may not receive regulatory approval either if we fail to demonstrate that it is safe and effective in clinical trials and consequently fail to 21 Table of Contents obtain necessary approvals from the FDA, or similar non-U.S. regulatory agencies, or if we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance Nasulin through the clinical trial process. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to raise or obtain needed funding. Substantial time, financial and other resources will be required to complete ongoing development and clinical testing of our proprietary products. Regulatory efforts and collaborative arrangements also will be necessary for our products that are currently under development and testing in order for them to be marketed. Our revenues from operations and cash may not be sufficient over the next several years for commercializing all of the products we are currently developing. Consequently, we may seek strategic partners for various phases of development, marketing and commercialization of product candidates employing our technology. Further, we cannot assure you as to the sufficiency of our resources or the time required to complete any ongoing development and clinical testing, since the extent to which we conduct such testing is dependent on resource allocation decisions that we make from time to time based on numerous financial as well as operational conditions. In addition to development and other costs, we expect to incur capital expenditures from time to time. These capital expenditures will be influenced by our regulatory compliance efforts, our success, if any, at developing collaborative arrangements with strategic partners, our needs for additional facilities and capital equipment and the growth, if any, of our business in general. There can be no assurance that we will receive additional funding on favorable terms if at all, or that we will be successful in attracting strategic partners. If we cannot raise funds or engage strategic partners on acceptable terms when needed, we may not be able to continue our research and development activities, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities, grow our business or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated requirements. Our growth depends on identifying drugs suitable for our drug delivery technology. We believe that our growth depends on the identification of pharmaceutical products that are suitable for delivery using our proprietary technologies. Our principal drug delivery technology is our CPE-215 technology. This technology, like certain other drug delivery technologies, operates to increase the amount and rate of absorption of certain drugs across biological membranes. This technology does not operate independently and must be coupled with suitable pharmaceutical products in order to provide value. Consequently, our growth will depend to a great extent on identifying and commercializing these suitable drugs with respect to which we intend to expend significant resources and efforts. Identifying suitable products is a lengthy and complex process that may not succeed. Even if identified, products may not be available to us or we may otherwise be unable to enter into licenses or other agreements for their use. In our efforts to identify suitable products, we compete with other drug delivery companies with greater research and development, financial, marketing and sales resources. If we do not effectively identify drugs to be used with our technologies, improve the delivery of drugs with our technologies and bring the improved drugs to commercial success, then we may not be able to continue our growth and we will be adversely affected. Products using our technology are in various stages of development and may not achieve commercial success. Independently as well as in conjunction with strategic partners, we are investigating the use of our technology with respect to a variety of pharmaceutical compounds and products that are in various stages of development. We are unable to predict whether any of these products will receive regulatory approvals or be successfully developed, manufactured or commercialized. Further, due to the extended testing and regulatory review process required before marketing clearance can be obtained, the time periods before commercialization of any of these products are long and uncertain. Risks during development include the possibility that: • any or all of the proposed products will be found to be ineffective; 22 Table of Contents • the proposed products will have adverse side effects or will otherwise fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals; • the proposed products may be effective but uneconomical to market; or • other pharmaceutical companies may market equivalent or superior products. If medical doctors do not prescribe our products or the medical profession does not accept our products, our ability to grow our revenues will be limited. Our business is dependent on market acceptance of our products by physicians, hospitals, pharmacists, patients and the medical community. Willingness to prescribe our products depends on many factors, including: • perceived efficacy of our products; • convenience and ease of administration; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects in both clinical trials and commercial use; • availability of alternative treatments; • cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our marketing strategy and the pricing of our products; • publicity concerning our products or competing products; and • our ability to obtain third-party coverage or reimbursement. Even though regulatory approval has been received for Testim, and even if we receive regulatory approval and satisfy the above criteria for any other product candidates developed by us or incorporating our drug delivery technology, physicians may not prescribe these products if we do not promote the products effectively. Factors that could affect our success in marketing our products include: • the effectiveness of our sales force; • the effectiveness of our production, distribution and marketing capabilities; • the success of competing products; and • the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payors. We will rely on strategic partners to conduct clinical trials and commercialize products that use our drug delivery technology. In light of our limited development resources and the significant time, expense, expertise and infrastructure necessary to bring new drugs and formulations from inception to market, we are particularly dependent on resources from third parties to commercialize products incorporating our technologies. Our strategy involves forming alliances with others who will develop, manufacture, market and sell our products in the United States and other countries. We may not be successful in finding other strategic partners or in otherwise obtaining financing, in which case the development of our products would be delayed or curtailed. We must enter into agreements with strategic partners to conduct clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and sales necessary to commercialize product candidates. In addition, our ability to apply our drug delivery technologies to any proprietary drugs will depend on our ability to establish and maintain strategic partnerships or other collaborative arrangements with the holders of proprietary rights to such drugs. Arrangements with strategic partners may be established through a single comprehensive agreement or may evolve over time through a series of discrete agreements, such as letters of intent, research agreements and license agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to establish such strategic partnerships or collaborative arrangements on favorable terms or at all or that any agreement entered into with a strategic partner will lead to further agreements or ultimately result in commercialization of a product. 23 Table of Contents In collaborative arrangements, we will depend on the efforts of our strategic partners and will have limited participation in the development, manufacture, marketing and commercialization of the products subject to the collaboration. We cannot assure you that these strategic partnerships or collaborative arrangements will be successful, nor can we assure you that strategic partners or collaborators will not pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products on their own or with others, including our competitors. In addition, our collaborators or contract manufacturers will be subject to regulatory oversight which could delay or prohibit our development and commercialization efforts. Moreover, we could have disputes with our existing or future strategic partners or collaborators. Any such disagreements could lead to delays in the research, development or commercialization of potential products or could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. An interruption in the sourcing and availability of the active ingredient used in our CPE-215 technology could cause our product development and commercialization to slow or stop. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our product candidates. We lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We also lack the resources to manufacture the excipient CPE-215, which is the major component of our CPE-215 technology. Our technology is dependent upon obtaining pharmaceutical grade CPE-215 which is available from at least two major industrial manufacturers. If a third party supplier is unable to provide us with required quantities of pharmaceutical grade CPE-215 on commercially favorable terms, we may be unable to continue our product development or commercialization activity. If we are unable to meet our responsibilities under any of our agreements, we may lose potential business and be subject to penalties and other damages. The Company has a licensing agreement with Auxilium pursuant to which the Company licenses its CPE-215 with Testosterone formulation to Auxilium and receives royalties of 12% from Auxilium based upon Auxilium’s sales of Testim. This royalty stream is the Company’s major source of current revenue. If the Company does not maintain adequate patent protection for Testim, the royalty rate due to the Company would be reduced to 2%. To date the Company has not experienced a reduction in the royalty rate due to loss of patent protection and the Company recently obtained patents that cover the application of testosterone with CPE-215 in the U.S. and in foreign countries that continue through 2023. Disputes may arise with respect to certain of our development agreements regarding the development and commercialization of products, which incorporate our intellectual property. These disputes could lead to delays in commercialization of products incorporating our technologies or termination of the agreements. If any of our product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval do not achieve broad market acceptance, the revenues that we generate from their sales will be limited. The commercial success of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval from the FDA or other regulatory authorities will depend upon the acceptance of these products by the medical community and coverage and reimbursement of them by third-party payors, including government payors. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • limitations or warnings contained in a product’s FDA-approved labeling; • changes in the standard of care for the targeted indications for either of our product candidates could reduce the marketing impact of any superiority claims that we could make following FDA approval; • limitations inherent in the approved indication for either of our product candidates compared to more commonly-understood or addressed conditions; and • potential advantages over, and availability of, alternative treatments, including, in the case of Nasulin, a number of products already used to treat diabetes. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to effectively promote and sell our product candidates will also depend on pricing and cost effectiveness, including our ability to produce a product at a competitive price and our ability to obtain sufficient third-party coverage or reimbursement. We will also need to demonstrate acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy as well as relative convenience and ease of administration. Market acceptance could be further limited depending on the prevalence and severity of any expected or unexpected adverse side effects associated with our product candidates. If our product candidates are approved but do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, health care payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products, and we may not become or remain profitable. In addition, our efforts to educate the medical community and third-party payors on the benefits of our product candidates may require significant resources and may never be successful. Pharmaceutical pricing, changes in third-party reimbursement and governmental mandates are uncertain and may adversely affect us. Successful commercialization of many of our products may depend on the availability of reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatment from third-party healthcare payors, such as the government, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price of medical products and services. Such reimbursement may not be available for any of our products at all or for the duration of the recommended treatment with a drug, which could materially adversely affect our ability to commercialize that drug. The increasing emphasis on managed care in the U.S. continues to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Some governmental agencies can compel companies to continue to produce products that are not profitable for the company due to insufficient supply. In the U.S., there have been a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls. We anticipate that there will continue to be a number of proposals in the U.S., as has been the case in many foreign markets. The announcement or adoption of such proposals could adversely affect us. Further, our ability to commercialize our products may be adversely affected to the extent that such proposals materially adversely affect the business, financial condition and profitability of companies that are prospective strategic partners. The cost of healthcare in the U.S. and elsewhere continues to be a subject of investigation and action by various governmental agencies. Certain resulting legislative proposals may adversely affect us. For example, governmental actions to further reduce or eliminate reimbursement for drugs may directly diminish our markets. In addition, legislative safety and efficacy measures may be invoked that lengthen and increase the costs of drug approval processes. Further, social, economic and other broad policy legislation may induce unpredictable changes in the healthcare environment. If any of these measures are enacted in some form, they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our clinical trials fail or are delayed for any product candidate, we will be unable to market it. Any human pharmaceutical product developed by us would require clearance by the FDA for sales in the United States and by comparable regulatory agencies for sales in other countries. The process of conducting clinical trials and obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals is expensive, takes several years and we cannot be assured of success. In order to obtain FDA approval of any new product candidates using our technologies, a New Drug Application (“NDA”) must be submitted to the FDA demonstrating that the product candidate, based on preclinical research, animal studies and human clinical trials, is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials do not ensure positive results in more advanced clinical trials designed to permit application for regulatory approval. We may suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even in cases where earlier clinical trials show promising results. Any of our new product candidates may produce undesirable side effects in humans that could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials of a product candidate. We, the FDA or other regulatory authorities, may suspend our clinical trials at any time if we or they believe the trial participants face unacceptable health risks or if they find deficiencies in any of our regulatory submissions. Other factors that can cause delay or terminate our clinical trials include: • slow or insufficient patient enrollment; 25 Table of Contents • slow recruitment and completion of necessary institutional approvals at clinical sites; • longer treatment time required to demonstrate efficacy; • lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate; • adverse medical reactions or side effects in treated patients; • lack of effectiveness of the product candidate being tested; • regulatory requests for additional clinical trials; and • instability of the pharmaceutical formulations. A delay or termination of any of our clinical trials may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates and plan to rely on third parties to conduct future clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our current and future product candidates. We do not have the ability to conduct clinical trials for any of our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct all of our clinical trials for our product candidates. Although we rely on these third parties to conduct our clinical trials, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA and other non-U.S. regulatory authorities require us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practices (“GCPs”), for conducting, monitoring, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that the data and results are scientifically credible and accurate and that the trial subjects are adequately informed of the potential risks of participating in clinical trials. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If the third parties do not perform their contractual duties or obligations, do not meet expected deadlines or need to be replaced, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to GCPs or for any other reason, we may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated. In addition, failure by such third parties to perform their obligations in compliance with GCPs may cause our clinical trials to fail to meet regulatory requirements, which may require us to repeat our clinical trials. If our existing patents do not afford adequate protection to us, our competitors may be able to develop competing products. The basic patent disclosing and claiming CPE-215 technology expired in the U.S. in June 2008 and most foreign markets in 2006. The patent will also expire in Canada in 2010. The Company has filed applications in many countries that cover the application of testosterone with CPE-215. Patents for the application of testosterone with CPE-215 have been issued to us in various countries, including the U.S., Canada and Europe that continue through 2023. As such, we do not anticipate a significant impact from the expiration of the basic CPE-215 patent on the current Testim royalty rates due to the Company or on our plan of operation or future business plans. The Company also has pending applications for other applications involving CPE-215 technology. If our pending applications covering various applications involving CPE-215 technology are not issued as patents or if our patents do not afford adequate protection to us or our licensees, our competitors may be able to use information from our expired and soon to expire patents to develop, manufacture and market products that compete with our products, as well as other products using CPE-215 that we otherwise might have developed. 26 Table of Contents Our patent positions and intended proprietary or similar protections are uncertain. We have filed a number of patent applications and have been granted licenses to, or have acquired, a number of patents. We cannot assure you, however, that any of our issued or licensed patents will afford adequate protection to us or our licensees. Furthermore, enforcing a claim that another person is infringing one or more of our patents is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. We cannot determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents that are now owned by or may be granted to third parties, the extent to which we may wish, or be required, to acquire rights under such patents or the cost or availability of such rights. In the event that patent protection for technologies expire, or are not extended, revenues derived from such technologies may be reduced significantly. Competitors may interfere with our patent process in a variety of ways. Competitors may claim that they invented the claimed invention prior to us. Competitors also may claim that we are infringing their patents, interfering with or preventing the use of our technologies. Competitors also may contest our patents by showing the patent examiner that the invention was not original, was not novel or was obvious. A competitor could claim that our issued patents are not valid for a variety of other reasons as well. We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary technologies and continuing technological innovations in the development and commercialization of our products. We cannot assure you that others will not independently develop the same or similar technologies or obtain access to our proprietary technologies. It is unclear whether our trade secrets will be protected under law. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees or consultants may unintentionally or willfully disclose our information to competitors. Our employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information have entered into or are subject to confidentiality arrangements with us and have agreed to disclose and assign to us any ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions that arise from their activities for us. We cannot assure you, however, that others may not acquire or independently develop similar technologies or, if effective patents in applicable countries are not issued with respect to our products or technologies, that we will be able to maintain information pertinent to such research as proprietary technologies or trade secrets. Enforcing a claim that another person has illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets, like patent litigation, is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, we may be subject to the jurisdiction of courts outside the U.S., some of which may be less willing to protect trade secrets. Regulatory approvals must be obtained and maintained for products incorporating our technology and, if approvals are delayed or withdrawn, we will be unable to commercialize these products. Government regulations in the United States and other countries have a significant impact on our business and affect the research, development and marketing of products incorporating our technology. In the United States and other countries, governmental agencies have the authority to regulate the distribution, manufacture and sale of drugs. Failure to obtain or experiencing a delay in obtaining regulatory approval for our products could result in reduction of our expected revenues. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can, among other things, result in fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, governmental regulations may be established that could prevent, delay, modify or rescind regulatory approval of our products. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological change and meet the intense competition in our industry, we may not succeed. Our success depends, in part, on achieving and maintaining a competitive position in the development of products and technologies in a rapidly evolving industry. If we are unable to continue to develop and/or acquire competitive products and technologies, our current and potential strategic partners may choose to adopt the drug delivery technologies of our competitors. We also compete generally with other drug delivery, biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies engaged in the development of alternative drug delivery technologies or new drug research and testing. Many of these competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, manufacturing, marketing, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do and represent significant competition for us. Our competitors may succeed in developing 27 Table of Contents competing technologies or obtaining governmental approval for products before we achieve success, if at all. The products of our competitors may gain market acceptance more rapidly than our products. Developments by competitors may render our existing or proposed products noncompetitive or obsolete. The competitive position of our drug delivery technologies is subject to the possible development by others of superior technologies. Other drug delivery technologies, including oral and injection methods, have wide acceptance, notwithstanding certain drawbacks, and are the subject of improvement efforts by other entities having greater resources. In addition, our drug delivery technologies are limited by the number and commercial magnitude of drugs with which they can successfully be combined. We may be unable to meet increasing expenses and demands on our resources from future growth, if any, or to effectively pursue additional business opportunities. We have no current agreements or commitments with respect to any acquisitions or investments. Any future acquisitions or investments would further challenge our resources. If we do not properly meet the increasing expenses and demands on our resources from future growth, we will be adversely affected. To properly manage our growth, we must, among other things, improve and implement additional administrative, financial, marketing, operational and research and development systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis. While we currently do not have any plans to hire additional personnel, in the future, we may need to expand our staff in various areas of the business. We may not be able to complete the improvements to our systems, procedures and controls necessary to support our future operations in a timely manner. We may not be able to hire, train, integrate, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, successfully integrate acquisitions or investments, nor successfully identify, manage and pursue existing and potential market opportunities. The Company has never been profitable and our revenues are currently insufficient to generate a profit; if we fail to generate additional revenue in excess of any increased operating expenses in any fiscal period, we will continue to incur losses. If we undertake an acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. One of our strategies for business expansion is the acquisition of additional technologies, products and product candidates. We may attempt to acquire these product candidates, or other potentially beneficial technologies, through the acquisition of businesses, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Although we currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any acquisitions, if we undertake an acquisition, the process of integrating the acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may divert significant management attention from our ongoing business operations. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition for a variety of reasons such as an acquired technology or product candidate proving to not be safe or effective in later clinical trials. We may fund any future acquisition by issuing equity or debt securities, which could dilute your ownership percentage or limit our financial or operating flexibility as a result of restrictive covenants related to new debt. Acquisition efforts can consume significant management attention and require substantial expenditures, which could detract from our other programs. In addition, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions that are never completed. If we cannot attract and retain key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business plan as anticipated. Our success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified, experienced personnel. We face significant competition from other pharmaceutical companies in recruiting competent personnel. The loss of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional, competent employees, could adversely affect our business and financial results. 28 Table of Contents We may incur substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products in response to product liability claims. The testing and marketing of pharmaceutical products entails an inherent risk of product liability. We may be held liable to the extent that there are any adverse reactions from the use of our products. Our products involve new methods of delivery for drugs, some of which may require precautions to prevent unintended use, especially since they are designed for patients’ self-use rather than being administered by medical professionals. The FDA may require us to develop a comprehensive risk management program for our products. The failure of these measures could result in harmful side effects or death. As a result, consumers, regulatory agencies, pharmaceutical companies or others might make claims against us. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, lose market share or be required to limit commercialization of our products. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • termination of clinical trial sites or entire trial programs; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could inhibit or prevent the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop alone or with corporate collaborators. We maintain $5.0 million in product liability and clinical trials insurance in the U.S. at an approximate cost of $53,000 per policy year. While management believes this insurance is reasonable for conducting clinical trials, we cannot assure you that any of this coverage will be adequate to protect us in the event of a claim. We, or any corporate collaborators, may not be able to obtain or maintain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. Even if our agreements with any future corporate collaborators entitle us to indemnification against losses, such indemnification may not be available or adequate if any claim arises. The discovery of any new side effects or negative efficacy findings for our products could significantly harm our business. While the safety of our products has been, is being, and will be extensively studied in clinical trials there can be no assurance that new or more serious side effects or negative efficacy findings may not be discovered based on long term safety and efficacy studies or required reporting of adverse events regarding any of our products after each such product has been marketed, any of which could severely harm our business and result in one or more of the following regulatory events: • a voluntary or involuntary recall or market withdrawal of the applicable product; • labeling changes such as restriction on intended uses, additional contraindications, warnings, precautions, or adverse reactions that would limit the applicable product’s market potential; • a “boxed” warning on the label; • imposition of post-marketing surveillance studies or risk management programs; • distribution restrictions; and • adverse publicity. 29 Table of Contents In addition, one or more of the above factors would also have the potential to negatively impact regulatory registrations for the applicable product in other countries. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to have losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability. We have incurred operating losses since the Separation date and we expect to continue to incur operating losses over the coming years as we continue to incur significant costs for research and development, clinical trials, sales and general and administrative functions. Our ability to achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete the development of Nasulin, obtain the required regulatory clearances, and deliver Nasulin to market. Our revenues, operating results and cash flows may fluctuate in future periods and we may fail to meet investor expectations, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Variations in our quarterly and year-end operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from period to period. If our sales or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In addition to the other factors discussed under this “Risk Factors” section, specific factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • demand and pricing for our products; • government or private healthcare reimbursement policies; • physician, pharmacy and patient acceptance of any of our current or future products; • patterns or cost structures for our products; • introduction of competing products; • any interruption in the manufacturing or distribution of Testim or any of our future products; • our operating expenses which fluctuate due to growth of our business; • timing and size of any new product or technology acquisitions we may complete; and • variations in our rates of product returns and allowances. We could be negatively affected as a result of a threatened proxy fight and other actions of activist shareholders. We received notice from Arcadia Opportunity Master Fund, Ltd. and its affiliates, Arcadia Capital Advisors, LLC and Richard Rofé, collectively referred as Arcadia, of their intention to nominate Mr. Rofé for election to our Board of Directors at our 2010 annual stockholders meeting. As of February 22, 2010, Arcadia owned beneficially 9.98% of our outstanding common stock. If Arcadia carries through with its intention and launches a proxy contest, our business could be adversely affected because: • responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of management and our employees; • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may impact our existing or potential collaborations or strategic relationships; and • if individuals are elected to our Board of Directors with a specific agenda, potentially including Mr. Rofé, it may adversely affect our ability to effectively and timely implement our strategic plan. Our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results we would have achieved as a separate publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical financial information we have included in this Form 10-K may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent publicly traded 30 Table of Contents company during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be in the future when we are an independent company. This is primarily because: • our historical financial information reflects allocations for services historically provided to us by Bentley, which allocations may not reflect the costs we will incur for similar services in the future as an independent company; and • our historical financial information does not reflect changes that we expect to incur in the future as a result of our separation from Bentley, including changes in the cost structure, personnel needs, financing and operations of the contributed business as a result of the separation from Bentley and from reduced economies of scale. Since the Separation date, we have been responsible for the additional costs associated with being an independent public company, including costs related to corporate governance and having listed and registered securities. Therefore, our financial statements may not be indicative of our future performance as an independent company. For additional information about our past financial performance and the basis of presentation of our financial statements, please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Your percentage ownership in CPEX common stock may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in CPEX may be diluted in the future because of equity awards that have or we expect will be granted to our directors, officers and employees and the accelerated vesting of equity awards. Shareholders of CPEX have approved the Amended and Restated 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2008 Equity Incentive Plan”), which provides for the grant of equity based awards, including restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights, unrestricted stock and stock equivalents and other equity-based awards to our directors, officers and other employees, advisors and consultants. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law may prevent or delay an acquisition of our Company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the raider and to encourage prospective acquirors to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, among others: • a Board of Directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • elimination of the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how stockholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at stockholder meetings; • the right of our Board to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; and • limitations on the right of stockholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. We also maintain a shareholder rights plan which may deter a potential acquiror from pursuing an offer for our company. We believe these provisions protect our stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our Board and by providing our Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and 31 Table of Contents could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our stockholders. We do not expect to pay any dividends in the short term. We do not expect to declare dividends in the short term. We currently intend to retain earnings to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business. There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient surplus under Delaware law to be able to pay any dividends. This may result from extraordinary cash expenses, actual expenses exceeding contemplated costs funding of capital expenditures, or increases in reserves. If we do not pay dividends, the price of our common stock must appreciate for you to receive a gain on your investment in CPEX. This appreciation may not occur. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 