D. Risk Factors Risks related to our business Our financial statements indicate that we have a going concern uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our ongoing financing needs and obtain third party financing. We have suffered significant operating losses, working capital deficiencies and negative operating cash flow, and a significant amount of our short-term borrowings needs to be refinanced. In addition, starting in 2009, we experienced a significant decline in sales in the United States due to the anti-dumping and countervailing duties on seamless pipes made in China, which resulted in low utilization of our production capacity. Additionally, in connection with the global credit and economic crisis in the past few years, some of our customers experienced reductions in cash flows and availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to tightening of the credit markets, which had significant adverse effects on the their financial conditions. This may result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, because we depend on a limited number of customers, any decline in our major customers’ businesses could lead to a decline in purchase orders from these customers and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely largely on operating cash flow and short-term borrowings for the working capital needs of our operations. As of December 31, 2012, our total bank and other borrowings amounted to $802.9 million, of which $787.0 million were short-term bank borrowings. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our investors. For example, it could: · limit our ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt; · increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our businesses and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · impair our ability to develop business opportunities or make strategic acquisitions; and · increase the cost of additional financing. 4 Table of Contents In addition, our facility agreements with certain commercial banks contain various covenants. A failure to maintain the financial covenants, or a breach of any of the other restrictive covenants, would result in a default under the relevant facility agreements. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient cash or assets to repay the loans under the facility agreements. The existence of these conditions may raise the issue about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debts and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may (i) seek additional financing, (ii) seek to refinance some or all of our debts or (iii) dispose of certain assets. See “—Restrictive covenants under our facility agreements and any future indebtedness may limit the manner in which we operate and an event of default under any of our facility agreements and any future indebtedness may adversely affect our operations; and our financial leverage may hinder our ability to expand and materially affect our results of operations.” and “—We and our subsidiaries have been in breach of certain financial covenants under certain loan agreements, which, if not managed carefully, may trigger events of default and accelerated payment and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” Additionally, in 2012 and 2013 we also obtained high interest loans from non-commercial lenders. These loans typically had durations of no longer than seven days and annualized interest rates of approximately 90%. We paid interest of approximately RMB4.4 million ($0.7 million) and RMB2.7 million ($0.4 million) on these high interest loans in the year ended December 31, 2012 and the nine months ended September 30, 2013. If we are forced to place more reliance on these types of high interest loans in the future as sources of financing, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The existence of a going concern uncertainty could affect our ability to obtain financing from third parties or could result in increased costs of such financing. See our financial statements included in this annual report for more details. Although we believe that we will be able to renew a substantial portion of our bank borrowings and bank credit facilities when they fall due, any additional financing may not be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The incurrence of debt would divert cash for working capital and capital expenditures to service debt obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We may not be able to refinance some or all of our existing facilities on commercially reasonable terms and in a timely manner. Our ability to refinance existing facilities and borrow additional funds is affected by a variety of factors, including (i) limitations imposed on us under the financing agreements that contain restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions that may limit our ability to raise additional debt, (ii) the decline in liquidity in the credit markets, (iii) prevailing interest rates, (iv) the strength of the lenders from whom we borrow, and (v) changes in the PRC government’s policies in connection with commercial loans. An event of default, any material negative change of our operation and financial conditions, an adverse action by a regulatory authority or a general deterioration in the economy that constricts the availability of credit may increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to renew existing credit facilities and obtain new loans. In the event that we are unable to meet our liabilities when they become due or if our creditors take legal actions against us for payment, we may have to liquidate long-term assets to repay our creditors. We may have difficulty converting our long-term assets into current assets in such a situation and may suffer material losses upon the sale of our long-term assets. Restrictive covenants under our facility agreements and any future indebtedness may limit the manner in which we operate and an event of default under any of our facility agreements and any future indebtedness may adversely affect our operations; and our financial leverage may hinder our ability to expand and materially affect our results of operations. Our facility agreements with certain commercial banks contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debt; · secure loans, make capital expenditures or engage in investments and acquisitions; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · create liens; · announce cash dividends; · make major investments; · merge or consolidate with other companies, implement any divesture, reorganization, restructuring, discontinuance of business, receivership, bankruptcy, dissolution or other similar proceedings; and · dispose of, lease, transfer or sell more than 10% of our assets. 5 Table of Contents As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and may be unable to engage in certain business activities. Some of the facility agreements also include certain financial covenants including, but not limited to, specified financial ratios that we must comply over the term of the borrowings. In August 2011, one of our subsidiaries entered into a syndicated bank credit facility agreement with two major lead commercial banks and six other participating commercial banks that provided us with a syndicated bank credit facility of up to RMB3.5 billion, with an initial commitment of RMB2.86 billion for a term up to three years from the first drawdown date. This agreement contains financial covenants applicable to one of our major subsidiaries, including maintenance of debt to asset ratio not exceeding 72% in 2011, 71% in 2012 and 67% in 2013, minimum sales of RMB4 billion in 2011, RMB4.5 billion ($722.3 million) in 2012 and RMB5.5 billion ($882.8 million) in 2013, minimum net income of RMB80 million in 2011, RMB150 million ($24.1 million) in 2012 and RMB350 million ($56.2 million) in 2013, minimum current ratios of 170% in 2011, 180% in 2012 and 180% in 2013, and minimum quick ratios of 120% in 2011, 130% in 2012 and 130% in 2013. Additionally, we must also meet certain ratios and thresholds at the end of a one-year special observation period from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012. These ratios and thresholds include maximum debt to asset ratio of 70%, minimum sales of RMB4.2 billion ($674.1 million), minimum net income of RMB100 million ($16.1 million), minimum current ratio of 170% and minimum quick ratio of 120%. A failure to maintain the financial covenants, or a breach of any of the other restrictive covenants, would result in a default under the relevant facility agreements. Upon the occurrence of any default under any of the facility agreements, the lender could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interests and fees, to be due and payable, or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient cash or assets to repay the loans under the facility agreements. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, we may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Our failure to comply with the financial or other covenants under our facility agreements could lead us to seek a waiver or an amendment of the covenants contained in the facility agreements, or alternative financing. Any waiver of the covenants in or amendment of the terms of our facility agreements may involve upfront fees, higher annual interest costs and other terms less favorable to us than those currently offered by the existing facilities. Additionally, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on commercially reasonable terms or terms accepted to us, if at all. For example, we did not meet certain ratios and thresholds set forth in the financial covenants in our syndicated bank credit facility agreement for the year ended December 31, 2011, the special observation period from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012 and the year ended December 31, 2012. See “—We and our subsidiaries have been in breach of certain financial covenants under certain loan agreements, which, if not managed carefully, may trigger events of default and accelerated payment and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.” We may not be able to comply with the covenants contained in our facility agreements in the future, and if we breach the covenants, we may not be able to obtain waivers for the breaches or obtain alternative financing at commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, defaults under our existing facility agreements may result in cross-defaults under our other loans with banks in China. Such events of default may result in a substantial amount of our debt becoming immediately due, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make scheduled payments under our financing agreements and any future financing transactions and our ability to refinance our debts, if necessary, will depend, among other things, on our future operating performance. See above for a discussion on the risks regarding our ability to service our debt. We and our subsidiaries have been in breach of certain financial covenants under certain loan agreements, which, if not managed carefully, may trigger events of default and accelerated payment and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In August 2011, one of our subsidiaries entered into a syndicated bank credit facility agreement with two major lead commercial banks and six other participating commercial banks that provided us with a syndicated bank credit facility of up to RMB3.5 billion, with an initial commitment of RMB2.86 billion for a term up to three years from the first drawdown date. This agreement contains financial covenants applicable to one of our major subsidiaries, including maintenance of debt to asset ratio not exceeding 72% in 2011, 71% in 2012 and 67% in 2013, minimum sales of RMB4 billion in 2011, RMB4.5 billion ($722.3 million) in 2012 and RMB5.5 billion ($882.8 million) in 2013, minimum net income of RMB80 million in 2011, RMB150 million ($24.1 million) in 2012 and RMB350 million ($56.2 million) in 2013, minimum current ratios of 170% in 2011, 180% in 2012 and 180% in 2013, and minimum quick ratios of 120% in 2011, 130% in 2012 and 130% in 2013. Additionally, we must also meet certain ratios and thresholds at the end of a one-year special observation period from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012. These ratios and thresholds also include maximum debt to asset ratio of 70%, minimum sales of RMB4.2 billion ($674.1 million), minimum net income of RMB100 million ($16.1 million), minimum current ratio of 170% and minimum quick ratio of 120%. 6 Table of Contents The subsidiary did not meet certain financial covenants under the syndicated loan facility agreement for the year ended December 31, 2011, the special observation period from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012 and the year ended December 31, 2012. In December 2012, the bank syndicate waived the past breaches of financial covenants during the observation period and agreed to continue to fulfill the terms of the syndicated loan facility. Additionally, we have informed the bank syndicate that we did not meet certain financial covenants for the year ended December 31, 2012. The bank syndicate held a review meeting and reached an agreement to waive the aforementioned breaches of financial covenants. The formal approval process within the bank syndicate is currently underway. However, the bank syndicate may not grant us a waiver for these breaches or any future breaches or noncompliance. Additionally, two of our other subsidiaries are also in breach of their financial covenants under project loans. Our lenders have not accelerated the repayment of these borrowings under the aforementioned credit facilities. Due to our breaches, we have classified our long-term loans under the syndicate loan facility and project loans from such banks into short-term loans due within one year. These two subsidiaries have entered into agreements with the lenders regarding the treatment and remedying of these breaches of financial covenants and the extension of the repayment schedules of these loans. However, if we have future breaches of financial covenants under these project loans and are unable to reach an agreement with our lenders, they may accelerate repayment of these loans and we may not be able to repay the loans, which would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. See the risk factor entitled “—Our financial statements indicate that we have a going concern uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our ongoing financing needs and obtain third party financing.” Furthermore, accelerated payments and/or defaults under our existing facility agreements may result in cross-defaults or cross-accelerations under our other loans with banks in China, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our subsidiaries entered into bill financing arrangements and transactions which may not be and in certain cases were not in compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations, and we cannot assure you that there will not be any legal or regulatory action taken against us which would result in material adverse effect on our business conditions and cash flows. In the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 and to date in 2013, certain of our subsidiaries have used a portion of our credit facilities from certain banks as bill financing to fund a portion of our working capital requirements and business operational needs. These transactions may not be in compliance and in certain cases were not with relevant PRC laws and regulations. Under their terms, the bill financing facilities should be used to finance trade purchases. However, we entered into certain bill financing arrangements where the amounts of bank and commercial acceptance notes drawn down on the banks under the facilities were greater than our real expectation of purchasing needs from suppliers, which included both our subsidiaries and third parties. Moreover, on some occasions, the same purchase contracts (required for the issuance of bank acceptance notes under the bill financing facilities) were presented to two or more different banks to obtain financing. A portion of the notes we issued to our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers were then presented by the relevant suppliers to the banks for collection of an amount equal to the face value of the notes after deducting interest. Cash received from the notes presented in excess of the actual amount of purchases was then provided to us and utilized for operational purposes. These bill financing arrangements may not be in compliance with the general principles under the PRC Negotiable Instruments Law. We have sought legal advice from our PRC legal advisor regarding these bill financing arrangements. Considering the relevant factors including, in particular, that we have settled in the past these notes when they were due, and under the assumption that we are able to settle the outstanding notes when they become due, our PRC legal advisor subsequently issued a legal opinion stating that our bill financing arrangements in the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 would not result in any criminal or administrative liabilities on us or our senior management or directors, and there would not be any civil liabilities. The nature of our bill financing arrangements in the year ended December 31, 2012 has remained consistent with previous years. We have also obtained written confirmations from all of the endorsing banks that they will not take any legal action against us in connection with the bank and commercial acceptance notes that have been duly settled. We have settled all of the bank and commercial acceptance notes involved in the bill financing transactions in 2010, 2011 and 2012 that have become due. We expect to settle the notes from bill financing transactions that are outstanding on the date of this annual report when they become due. Although we have obtained the written confirmations from all of the endorsing banks that they will not take any legal action against us in connection with the bank and commercial acceptance notes that have been duly settled, the endorsing banks may legal action regarding notes that we have settled regardless due to unforeseen reasons and circumstances beyond our control. 7 Table of Contents In 2012, additionally, for purposes of raising financing from a number of commercial banks, Wuxi Seamless Oil Pipes Company Limited, or WSP China, Liaoyang Seamless Oil Pipes Co., Ltd., or Liaoyang Seamless, and Songyuan Seamless Oil Pipes Co., Ltd., or Songyuan Seamless, entered into a number of intragroup transactions, under which WSP China sold approximately RMB251 million ($40.1 million) worth of goods to Liaoyang Seamless, Liaoyang Seamless sold approximately RMB252 million ($40.3 million) of goods to Songyuan Seamless and Songyuan Seamless sold approximately RMB252 million ($40.3 million) of goods to WSP China. Official sales invoices were issued for these transactions. However, physical delivery of the underlying goods in these transactions did not occur. As these transactions were intragroup, they did not have an overall impact on our consolidated revenues and did not result in additional tax payable, although the PRC generally accepted accounting principles, or PRC GAAP, reports of each of these three respective individual entities would have reflected sales not supported by physical delivery of the underlying goods. These sales invoices allowed our subsidiaries to obtain additional bill financing from a number of commercial banks. Due to the nature of these transactions, these commercial banks may declare any of our borrowings to become immediately due and payable and terminate our credit facilities so that no additional borrowings can be obtained. If any of these borrowings become immediately due and payable, we may not have the means to repay them. Our management has conducted an assessment, including obtaining PRC legal advice and testing the design and the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. This assessment identified a material weakness that these transactions occurred without proper approval and may not be in compliance and in certain cases were not compliant with relevant PRC laws and regulations, and therefore our internal controls have not been operating effectively. See “Item 15. Controls and Procedures — Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting.” In light of the current financial environment and our capital needs, we may continue to rely on such bill financing arrangements and continue to allow these borrowings relating to increased bills payable to remain until they are repaid upon maturity. Any actions by banks or regulators against us relating to these transactions could cause a disruption to our business operations and impact future financing arrangements with banks, which may have an adverse effect on our business conditions and cash flows. The banks may take legal action against us if we fail to settle outstanding bank and commercial acceptance notes when they become due, which may disrupt our business and impact our long-term relationships with the banks and future financing plans. Declines in domestic and international oil and natural gas prices, or domestic and international exploration, drilling and production activities, would adversely affect our profitability. Demand for our OCTG products depends significantly on the number of domestic and worldwide oil and gas wells drilled, completed and reworked, as well as the depth and drilling conditions of these wells. The level of such drilling activities in turn depends on the level of capital spending by major oil and gas companies. A decline in domestic and worldwide oil and gas exploration, drilling and production activities would adversely affect our results of operations. Capital spending on OCTG used for oil and natural gas exploration, drilling and production activities is driven in part by the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and the perceived stability and sustainability of those prices. Although the prices of crude oil and natural gas rose in 2012, the global credit and economic crisis have in the past reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices can reduce our customers’ activities and their spending on our products. If the current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or continue for an extended period, this could reduce our customers’ levels of expenditures and have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. The reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to tightening of the credit markets, could have significant adverse effects on the financial conditions of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, oil and natural gas prices are subject to significant volatility due to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, world events, regulatory control (including by the PRC government), political developments in petroleum producing regions and the price and availability of alternative energy sources. We cannot assure you that oil and natural gas prices will not decline further or that such prices will remain at sufficiently high levels to support levels of investment in exploration, drilling and production activities that will sustain demand for our products. Any further decline in the price of oil and natural gas, even for a short period of time, may reduce or curtail expenditures by oil and gas companies in connection with exploration, drilling and production activities, which may result in lower sales volumes and prices for our products in China and overseas and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 Table of Contents Our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases in raw material prices. Steel is the principal raw material for our products. Cost for raw materials accounted for 73.4%, 78.3% and 77.5% of our cost of revenues in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. Any increase in the price of steel could reduce our profit margin if we are unable to pass such increased costs on to our customers. From the end of 2003 to mid-2008, the price of steel increased substantially due in part to increasing demand, which significantly affected our gross margin. Since 2009, the price of steel has shown increasing volatility, although it exhibited a general upward trend through 2010 and the first half of 2011 before declining toward the end of 2011. We expect the volatility of price of steel to persist in the short to medium term. The price of steel has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our cost of revenues. If we are unable to manage our purchases of steel at prices acceptable to us or if the price of steel increase significantly and we are not able to pass on all or part of any such price increases to our customers, our profit margins may decrease and our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Measures such as initiation of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings and imposition of anti-dumping and/or countervailing duties by governments in our overseas markets could materially and adversely affect our export sales. Anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings have been initiated by some countries in relation to steel products, resulting in anti-dumping and/or countervailing duties being imposed by those countries on steel products. Those and other similar measures could trigger trade disputes in the international steel product markets that could adversely affect our exports. In April 2009, seven U.S. companies and the United Steelworkers Union filed a petition with the U.S. International Trade Commission, or the ITC, and the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the DOC, alleging that China-based OCTG manufacturers unfairly dumped OCTG products in the U.S. market and that Chinese producers were benefitting from massive government subsidies. WSP China was named as one of the major exporters of OCTG products from China. In June 2009, we were included as one of the mandatory respondent companies to the United States government’s countervailing duty investigation. On September 8, 2009, a preliminary determination was issued with a countervailing duty rate of 24.92% assigned to WSP China. On December 7, 2009, the DOC published its final determination in the countervailing duties investigation with a rate of 14.61% assigned to WSP China. The rate was subsequently changed to 14.95% in January 2010 due to certain ministerial errors made by the DOC. We were not selected as a mandatory respondent to the anti-dumping investigation and participated in this case as a separate rate respondent. In November 2009, we received a preliminary dumping rate of 36.53%, which was based on the average dumping rates of other OCTG producers that were selected as mandatory respondents. In December 2009, this rate was amended to 96.51% due to certain ministerial errors made by the DOC. On April 9, 2010, the DOC announced its final determination in the anti-dumping investigation with a rate of 29.94% assigned to WSP China. In May 2010, the ITC made a final ruling which requires all Chinese exports of OCTG products to the United States, including WSP China’s products, be subject up to approximately 32.07% of anti-dumping duties and 14.95% of countervailing duties. The anti-dumping and countervailing duties are applied to all Chinese exports of OCTG products to the United States starting from the date of the DOC’s preliminary determinations. WSP China has not exported OCTG products to the United States after the date of the DOC’s preliminary determinations. The anti-dumping and countervailing duties will apply to us if WSP China exports OCTG products to the United States in the future and we are not subject to any other penalties or fines. In 2010, 2011 and 2012, products sold to the United States by our subsidiaries accounted for 9.7%, 6.3% and 9.3% of our net revenues, respectively. The decrease in export revenue of products sold to the United States as a percentage of our net revenues mainly was attributable to the effect of anti-dumping and countervailing duties on the subject goods. As a result of the proceedings, our sales in the U.S. suffered and our results of operations have been materially and adversely affected. Additionally, in 2012, we have identified an immaterial amount of goods originating from China that were incorrectly imported to the United States. We are presently repatriating the goods. We are unable to estimate the likelihood that legal liability will arise as a result of the incorrect importation of these goods, including any duties that may be imposed by regulators, or the amount of liability that we would incur should any legal proceedings take place. There may be similar actions taken in the future in other countries against PRC-made seamless OCTG products. Any actions filed against us with respect to the products we sell, even without merit, may divert significant company resources and management attention, have an adverse impact on the prices and sales of our products in the relevant countries and adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. If any decision is entered against us in such an action, we may be subject to additional tariff liabilities and our overseas sales may be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, in July 2013, nine US manufacturers sought anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations on OCTG products from nine countries, including Thailand. In August 2013, the ITC announced that it had found reasonable grounds to pursue an anti-dumping case against the nine countries and that the DOC was investigating the matter. If anti-dumping duties are imposed on Thailand, our business in Thailand and the operations of WSP Pipe Company Limited, or WSP Pipe, may be significantly and adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We depend on a limited number of customers, and any loss of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our customers include oil and gas companies in China and abroad. Aggregate sales attributable to our five largest customers represented approximately 46.5%, 69.5% and 63.8% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationships with these customers, or that we will be able to continue to supply products to these customers at current levels or at all. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the oil and gas industry, and any decline in our major customers’ businesses in these markets could lead to a decline in purchase orders from these customers. If any of our key customers were to substantially reduce the size or amount of the orders they place with us or were to terminate their business relationship with us entirely, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain orders from other customers to replace any such lost sales on comparable terms or at all. If any of these relationships were to be so altered and we were unable to obtain replacement orders, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our sales contracts typically have a term of less than six months and, as a result, customers may reduce their orders or terminate their relationships with us almost immediately. Sales of our products are typically conducted through sales contracts with a term of less than six months. As a result, our customers may choose to terminate their relationship with us after completion of the shipment or expiration of the contract, as the case may be. Our customers are also not obligated to continue placing orders with us at historical levels or at all. If any of our customers, particularly our key customers, were to materially reduce their orders with us or were to terminate entirely their business relationship with us with short notice, we might not have sufficient time to locate alternative customers and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our products will pass periodic inspection by the American Petroleum Institute or the qualification processes of potential customers, and any failure by us to pass such inspection or qualifications would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We have obtained certificates from the American Petroleum Institute, or API, to use the official API monogram on our products to demonstrate that our products meet API standards. These certificates are subject to periodic inspections by API. Furthermore, our growth strategies include increasing our sales in the PRC domestic market, as well as expanding into international markets such as North America, South America, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Russia. It is standard industry practice that an OCTG manufacturer must first pass a qualification process to become an approved supplier of an oil and gas company before providing OCTG products to that company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary certifications from API or approvals for new products from our existing customers or approvals from any new customers. Even if we can ultimately secure such approvals or certifications, we cannot assure you that such certifications and approvals can be obtained in a timely manner or can be maintained. If we fail to become an approved supplier of our potential customers, or if we are unable to obtain or maintain such approval in a timely manner, we may not be able to execute our expansion plans and our business prospects and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively in the OCTG industry, our revenues may decrease and losses may increase. We face intense competition in the domestic and international markets in which we operate. Domestically, we face competition from a number of manufacturers that produce OCTG that are similar to ours. Our major domestic competitors include Tianjin Pipe (Group) Corporation, Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation and Pangang Group Chengdu Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., which are mostly state-owned enterprises. We also face competition from international manufacturers, such as JFE Steel Corporation in Japan, US Steel in the United States, Tenaris in Argentina, Vallourec & Mannesmann Tubes in France, TMK in Russia and Sumitomo in Japan. Our major competitors may have longer operating history, larger customer base, stronger customer relationships, greater brand or name recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. Some of our competitors may also be better positioned to develop superior product features and technological innovations and be able to better adapt to market trends than we are. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to compete depends on, among other things, high product quality, short lead-time, timely delivery, competitive pricing, wide range of product offerings and superior customer service and support. Increased competition may require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any decrease in the quality of our products or the level of our service to our customers or any occurrence of a price war among our competitors and us may adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to remain competitive, we may not be able to increase or even maintain our current share of the OCTG market in China or overseas. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our future expansion plans, in particular our plans for international expansion, or in managing our growth. Historically, we have expanded our production capacity and developed our overseas sales as part of our growth strategy. For example, as a part of our international expansion strategy, in April 2008, we established our wholly-owned subsidiary, Houston OCTG Group, Inc., or Houston OCTG, in Houston, Texas. In April 2009, WSP China established Chaoyang Seamless Oil Steel Casting Pipes Co., Ltd., or Chaoyang Seamless, in Chaoyang, Liaoning Province, China. In February 2010, we acquired WSP Pipe, a company in the Thai-Chinese Rayong Industrial Zone, Thailand from Mr. Longhua Piao, our chairman and chief executive officer. In February 2010, Bazhou Seamless Oil Pipes Co., Ltd., or Bazhou Seamless, established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Kuitun Seamless Special Steel Company Co., Ltd. or Kuitun Seamless, in Kuitun, Xinjiang Autonomous Region, China. Although we disposed of Kuitun Seamless and Chaoyang Seamless in 2011 and 2012, respectively, we may expand through organic growth and selective acquisitions in the future. Furthermore, we may continue to be exposed to liabilities of a disposal entity after its disposal. In January 2012, we entered into an agreement with a third party to transfer our entire 51% equity interest in Chaoyang Seamless for nominal cash consideration. The disposal transaction was completed in January 2012. As part of this agreement, we waived the payment of RMB39.4 million ($6.3 million) owed by Chaoyang Seamless to WSP China. In October 2013, our board of directors approved the waiver of the payment of RMB27.0 million ($4.3 million) owed by Chaoyang Seamless to Bazhou Seamless and RMB78.5 million ($12.6 million) owed by Chaoyang Seamless to Liaoyang Seamless. In connection with this waiver, we recorded bad debt expenses of approximately RMB105.5 million ($16.9 million) reflected in our results of operations for the first half of 2013. Additionally, in November 2012, we sold production facilities held by Houston OCTG to a third party for approximately $43.0 million, and incurred a loss on disposal of approximately $5.1 million in the second half of 2012 related to the sale of these assets. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, our ability to manage expansion and overseas operations, obtain any required financing, achieve operational efficiency, and secure sufficient access to raw materials. Some of these factors are beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully manage our growth, expand our operations or achieve a satisfactory return on our investments in the expansion of our production capacity and international expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may incur further losses from any future dispositions of the equity or assets of our subsidiaries or additional types of restructuring, which will materially and adversely affect our results of operation. In addition, we may need to increase the number of our employees and enhance our operational and financial systems to manage the increased complexity and the expanded geographical coverage of our operations associated with our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management staff and employees or that our current operational and financial systems and controls will be adequate to accommodate future growth. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to manage these risks effectively, they could impair our ability to expand our business overseas. We have focused on international expansion in certain mature OCTG markets. In order to succeed, we need to take market share away from the existing suppliers of seamless OCTG in these markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in these competitive markets. Moreover, our plans for international expansion may be hindered by the following: · cultural differences and other difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations; · inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems; · volatility in currency exchange rates; · the risk that foreign countries may impose withholding taxes (or otherwise tax our foreign income or place restrictions on repatriation of profit); · the risk of barriers, such as anti-dumping and other tariffs or other restrictions being imposed on foreign trade; · changes in the political, regulatory, or economic conditions in a foreign country or region; and · the burden of complying with foreign laws and regulations. 11 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our ability to conduct or expand our business overseas would be impaired, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key personnel. Our future success is dependent on the efforts, performance and abilities of key members of our management team, particularly Mr. Longhua Piao, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Piao founded our company and has extensive industry experience. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our management personnel. As the OCTG industry in China becomes more competitive, we expect the competition for management and other skilled personnel to intensify. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees or the loss of any member of our senior management may result in a loss of organizational focus, poor operating execution or an inability to identify and execute potential strategic initiatives such as overseas expansion and new product offerings. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business relies on our ability to retain and attract experienced sales staff and our ability to maintain and expand our existing sales networks both domestically and overseas. Our experienced sales staff constitutes an essential part of our business. In the domestic PRC market, our sales staff possesses strong technical backgrounds in the OCTG industry, which enable them to provide and deliver on-site technical support to our customers. We rely on our four sales offices located in the Daqing, Changqing, Xinjiang and Sichuan oilfields to directly sell our products to the major oilfields in China. In addition to providing on-site services to our customers throughout the sales process and after-sales support, our sales staff also helps us maintain good relationships with our customers. Internationally, we sell our products through our distributors and sales agents. The loss of services of any of our experienced sales staff without timely replacement, the inability to attract and retain sales personnel, or the loss of any of our major distributors or sales agents may have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to maintain our existing sales network, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for a majority of our raw material requirements, and interruption of raw material delivery could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, and in turn result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. Our operations depend on our ability to obtain adequate and quality supplies of our primary raw materials, namely, round steel billets and green pipes, in a timely manner. If our suppliers fail to meet our quality standards or our quantity demands, our production and sales volume and our results of operation may be adversely affected. We made an upstream acquisition of Tuoketuo County Mengfeng Special Steel Co., Ltd., or Mengfeng, from Hebei Bishi Industry Group Co., Ltd., or Hebei Bishi, in July 2008 with the aim of stabilizing the supply, quality and cost of our raw materials. However, we stopped production at Mengfeng since the second half of 2011 as we are currently able to obtain raw materials at lower costs. As such, we will continue to rely on major suppliers to supply our primary raw materials to us. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Manufacturing—Suppliers of raw materials.” We cannot guarantee that our long-term arrangements with these suppliers will provide us with a reliable supply of raw materials. If there is any supply shortage, we may be unable to deliver our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, which in turn could result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. Significant product liability claims made against us, regardless of their success, could harm our business reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Our OCTG products are sold primarily for use in oil and gas exploration, drilling and extraction activities. These activities are subject to inherent risks, including well failures, line pipe leaks and fires that could result in death, personal injury, property damage, pollution or loss of production, all of which could result in liability claims being made against us. We typically offer warranties on our products for a period of up to one year. During the warranty period, faulty products will be repaired or replaced by us, or returned to us. Actual defects or allegations of defects in our products may give rise to claims against us for losses and expose us to claims for damages. For instance, we are subject to multiple lawsuits alleging defective casing pipes used in oil and gas well operations the United States. See “—We are subject to litigation proceedings brought by third-parties. If any of the proceedings against us is successful, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.” and “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal proceedings” for further information about the lawsuits. Any such claim, regardless of merit, could cause us to incur significant costs, divert our management’s attention, harm our business reputation or cause significant disruption to our operations. Furthermore, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to successfully defend against such claims. We do not have any product liability insurance covering our products sold outside of North America, and limited product liability insurance for most of our products sold inside North America. If any such claims were successful, we could be subject to substantial liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and our financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to prevent possible resales or transfers of our products to countries, governments, entities, or persons targeted by United States economic sanctions, especially when we sell our products to distributors over which we have limited control. The U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, administers certain laws and regulations, or U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws, that impose restrictions upon U.S. persons and, in some instances, foreign entities owned or controlled by U.S. persons, with respect to activities or transactions with certain countries, including the Western Balkans, Belarus, Burma (Myanmar), Cote d’Ivoire (Ivory Coast), Cuba, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia (former Taylor regime), Libya, North Korea, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Zimbabwe, and governments, entities and individuals that are the subject of U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws, or Sanctions Targets. U.S. persons are also generally prohibited from facilitating such activities or transactions. We believe that U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws under their current terms are not applicable to our activities, however, we have nonetheless decided to adopt commercially reasonable measures to prevent any sales of our products to Sanctions Targets. If we become subject to U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws, a violation of these laws and regulations could subject us to fines, penalties and other sanctions. In the three years ended December 31, 2012, we did not have any direct sales to Sanctions Targets. However, we sell our products in international markets primarily through independent non-U.S. distributors who are responsible for interacting with the end customers of our products. We have limited control over these independent non-U.S. distributors, and these distributors may breach their covenant to us not to resell our products to Sanctions Targets. In addition, we do not always know the end customers to whom our distributors resell our products. We are aware of an insignificant amount of resales of our products by two non-U.S. and non-affiliated distributor customers to Sudan, a Sanctions Target, during the three years ended December 31, 2012. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Internal control over distribution of our products.” Although we have adopted a written policy to prevent future direct or indirect sales to Sanctions Targets and have begun to implement internal control mechanisms to enforce such policy when possible, we cannot assure you that our measures will be able to prevent future sales or resales of our products, directly or indirectly, to Sanctions Targets. If our products are sold or re-sold, directly or indirectly, to Sanctions Targets, we may fail to comply with U.S. Economic Sanctions Laws and we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial conditions, liquidity and reputation. Additionally, we act as suppliers to leading Chinese oil companies, such as China National Petroleum Corporation, or CNPC, and China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation, or Sinopec. These companies currently and have in the past had business transactions and relationships with Sanctions Targets. As a result of these transactions and relationships with U.S.-designated state sponsors of terrorism, CNPC and Sinopec have received negative publicity and been the target of divestment or similar initiatives by state and municipal governments, universities and other investors. As a supplier to CNPC, Sinopec and other companies with relations to Sanctions Targets, we have no control over their business or operations. We do not believe that our products sold to these companies have been used outside of China. However, our relationships with such companies may nevertheless harm our reputation. Some of our U.S. investors may be required to sell their interests in our company under the laws of certain U.S. states or under internal investment policies or may decide for reputational reasons to sell such interests, and some U.S. institutional investors may forego the purchase of our ADSs, all of which could materially and adversely affect the value of our ADSs and your investment in us. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to continue developing our production technology or adopt new production technology, our business and prospects may be harmed. The OCTG industry is competitive and the production technology underlying the industry is evolving. As customers’ needs, related technologies and market trends are subject to change, we cannot assure you that we will be able to correctly predict the trends in a timely manner, develop or adopt competitive technology on a timely basis, or respond effectively to competitive industry conditions and changing customer demands. Responding and adapting to technological developments and changes in the OCTG industry and the integration of new technologies or industry standards may require substantial investment of resources, time and capital. Even if we implement such measures, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in adequately responding and adapting to such technological and industry changes. In the event that we are unable to respond successfully to technological and industry changes, our business, results of operations and competitiveness may be materially and adversely affected. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may materially and adversely affect our competitive position and operations, and we may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties. Our success is in part attributable to the technologies, know-how and other intellectual properties that we have developed or acquired. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Intellectual property rights” for information relating to our patents and trademarks. Although we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, non-disclosure and other contractual arrangements, and patent and trademark laws to protect our intellectual property rights, there can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized uses or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any significant infringement of our proprietary technologies and processes or our intellectual property rights could weaken our competitive position and have an adverse effect on our operations. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may have to commence legal proceedings against any misappropriation or infringement. However, there can be no assurance that we will prevail in such proceedings. Furthermore, as we only hold PRC patents, if third parties manufacture and sell products using our technology outside of China in competition against us, we would not have a legal cause of action against them. Furthermore, we may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or the violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation, which could adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain an effective quality control system at our manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. The performance, quality and safety of our products are critical to the success of our business. These factors depend significantly on the effectiveness of our quality control systems, which in turn depend on a number of factors, including the design of our quality control systems, our quality-training program, and our ability to ensure that our employees adhere to the quality control policies and guidelines. Any significant failure or deterioration of our quality control systems could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, results of operations and financial condition. If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, we may be unable to deliver our products in a timely manner and our cost of revenues could increase. We are highly dependent upon transportation systems, including train, truck and ocean shipping, to deliver our products. The transportation network is potentially exposed to disruption from a variety of causes, including labor disputes or port strikes, acts of war or terrorism and natural disasters. If our delivery times or our shipping costs increase unexpectedly for any reasons, our revenues and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Our growth strategies require significant capital investments and may require us to seek external financing, which may not be available on terms favorable to us. Our business operations and growth strategies require substantial capital investments, the availability of which depends on our ability to generate cash flow from operations, borrow funds on satisfactory terms and raise funds in the capital markets. Our ability to arrange for financing to support our capital expenditures and the cost of such financing are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital markets conditions, interest rates and credit availability from banks or other lenders, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, increases in interest rates or failure to obtain external financing on terms favorable to us will affect our financing costs and our results of operations. We may not be able to obtain financing in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all, especially in the current global credit and economic crisis, which may have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be successful in our future acquisitions and investments. If we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may acquire additional businesses or assets as part of our growth strategy. Future acquisitions, investments and joint ventures may expose us to potential risks, and the success of our acquisitions, investments and joint ventures depend on a number of factors, including: · our ability to identify suitable opportunities for acquisitions, investments or joint ventures; · whether we are able to reach an acquisition, investment or joint venture agreement on terms that are satisfactory to us; · the extent to which we are able to exercise control over the acquired company or business; · the economic, business or other strategic objectives and goals of the acquired company or business compared to those of our company; · the diversion of management attention and resources from our existing business; · our ability to finance the acquisition, investment or joint venture; and · our ability to integrate successfully the acquired company or business. If we fail to make acquisitions or investments or form joint ventures that are strategically important to us, our growth and business prospects may be limited. If we encounter difficulties in integrating the business we acquired, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to establish or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely impacted. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities law. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which must also contain management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires an independent registered public accounting firm to attest to the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. As a non-accelerated filer under Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are exempt from the auditor attestation requirement. However, if we become an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer, we will once again be subject to this requirement. In connection with the preparation of this annual report on Form 20-F, we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective due to material weaknesses, as defined by Auditing Standard 5, “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting That Is Integrated with An Audit of Financial Statements.” See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” The material weaknesses identified were: 15 Table of Contents · inadequate procedures for approving related party transactions, including lack of information provided to the audit committee for approval before the transactions occurred and certain related party transactions were reported to the board of directors only after they had occurred; · due to the need to obtain bank financing, bill financing transactions and increased bills payable in intragroup transactions occurred without following proper approval and other procedures and, such transactions may not be in compliance with relevant PRC laws and regulations; · inadequate logistical controls and procedures to ensure accurate shipment of goods; and · insufficient skilled resources available for the purposes of financial reporting and internal audit. We have designed certain control measures for proper implementation to address these material weaknesses. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We may be required to strictly perform under a long-term supply agreement to purchase iron ore pellets, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In November 2009, we entered into a five-year supply agreement with an iron ore supplier in Brazil to purchase iron ore pellets. Under this agreement, we have committed to purchase a minimum amount of 300,000 tonnes of iron ore pellets to be delivered by separate shipments on a yearly basis from 2010 through 2014. However, the contractual terms of this supply agreement were not strictly performed by us and the supplier in 2010 and 2011. We and the supplier adopted a more flexible approach regarding the performance of the agreement in 2010. When we could not agree on the pricing terms of the iron ore pellets for one shipment, we agreed that the tonnage to be delivered by the shipment is deemed to be cancelled. As a result, we purchased less than 300,000 tonnes of iron ore pellets in 2010 and none in 2011, primarily due to our internal lack of iron ore pellet requirements and low market demand for sales of iron ore pellets. In 2012, although we did not purchase any iron ore pellets, we received commissions from our supplier for finding a third-party buyer for 334,117 tonnes of iron ore pellets. Nonetheless, if the supplier chooses to enforce our obligations strictly in accordance with the contractual terms under this supply agreement in the future, absent any express modification of the terms, we may be obliged to comply with our purchase obligations under this supply agreement. We may not be able to perform strictly in accordance with the terms under the agreements or enter into a satisfactory arrangement with this supplier. If we encounter problems with this supplier, we may expend additional resources in resolving disputes that may arise under this agreement. We have previously resold some of the iron ore pellets that we purchased under the supply agreement, as in past years the prices for iron ore pellets imported under multi-year supply agreements have generally been lower than the prices on the spot market. However, if in the future we are not able to resell iron ore pellets that we purchase in excess of the demand of our steel billet manufacturing subsidiaries or generate sufficient profit from the resale of the iron ore pellets, we may overstock our inventory of iron ore pellets or be unable to recover our costs of purchasing the iron ore pellets. If the price of iron pellets rapidly declines and we are forced to provide an impairment charge on our inventory of iron ore pellets, or if we are forced to sell our stock at a reduced price to improve the aging of our inventory, our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to distribute future dividends will be subject to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, and we may not be able to fulfill our dividend policy in the future. In March 2009, we declared a cash dividend in the amount of $0.15 per ordinary share and a one-time special cash dividend in the amount of $0.225 per ordinary share out of our annual profits for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our ability to distribute future dividends will be subject to various factors including, but not limited to, available cash and distributable reserves, investment requirements, and cash flow and working capital requirements, as well as the withholding tax obligations for dividend distribution under the PRC tax law. These factors depend on other factors that are beyond our control, including a possible economic downturn and delays in the payments made by customers. If we encounter any of these problems or others, we may not be able to declare and pay dividends in the future as currently planned. 16 Table of Contents We are not required to pay dividends. Our shareholders or ADS holders also do not have contractual or other rights to require us to pay dividends. Our board may decide at any time, in its discretion, to change the amount of dividends under the dividend policy, change or revoke our dividend policy, or discontinue any payment of dividends. Our ability to make distributions or other payments to our shareholders depends primarily on payments from WSP China, whose ability to make such payments is subject to PRC regulations. Under PRC laws and accounting rules, dividends may be paid only out of distributable profits. Distributable profits with respect to WSP China refers to its after-tax profits as determined under PRC accounting standards, less any recovery of accumulated losses and allocations to statutory funds that it is required to make. For example, it is required to allocate 10% of its after-tax profit to statutory reserves until such reserves reach 50% of WSP China’s registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserves and funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. As a result, WSP China may not be able to pay dividends to us in any given year if it does not have distributable profits as determined under PRC accounting standards, even if we have profits for the relevant year as determined under U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, if we do not receive dividend distributions from WSP China, our liquidity, financial condition and ability to make dividend distributions will be materially and adversely affected. Further, our dividend policy, to the extent implemented, will significantly restrict our cash reserves and may adversely affect our ability to fund unexpected capital expenditures. We may be required to borrow money or raise capital by issuing equity securities, which we may not be able to do so on attractive terms or at all. If we are unable to fulfill our dividend policy, or pay dividends at levels anticipated by investors, the market price of our ADSs may be negatively affected and the value of your investment may be reduced. Our business is substantially dependent on the continuing devotion of our chairman and chief executive officer, and our business may be materially and adversely affected if we lose his service. Mr. Longhua Piao, our chairman and chief executive officer, is a director and controlling shareholder of several private companies, including Eastar Industries, Inc., Expert Master Holdings Limited, or EMH, Lianyungang Eastar Photonics Technologies Co., Ltd., Regalia Investments Holdings Ltd., WSP Pipe LLC, Wuxi Huayi Investment Company Limited, Wuxi Longhua Steel Pipes Company Limited, or Wuxi Longhua, and Cambodian WS Mining Industry Holding Ltd. The changing business environment may demand more of Mr. Piao’s time outside of our company. Mr. Piao may not be able to devote substantially all of his time to our business given his duties to other companies. In addition, although none of these companies currently engage in the production and sale of OCTG products, they may enter into such business in the future. See “Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees—C. Board Practices—Code of business conduct and ethics” for more details on our code of business conduct and ethics with respect to conflict of interests. If Mr. Piao is not able to devote a substantial amount of his time to our business, or if any dispute arises between Mr. Piao and us, we may not be able to find a suitable replacement in a timely manner or at all, and our business may be adversely and materially affected. Control or significant influence by our existing shareholders may limit your ability to affect the outcome of decisions requiring the approval of shareholders. EMH owns approximately 50.9% of our issued share capital as of the date of this annual report. Mr. Piao, our chairman and chief executive officer, is the sole shareholder of EMH, and has control over our business, including matters relating to our management and policies and certain matters requiring the approval of our shareholders, such as election of directors, approval of significant corporate transactions and the timing and distribution of dividends. Furthermore, our articles of association contain a quorum requirement of at least a majority of our total outstanding shares present in person or by proxy. EMH, with an aggregate shareholding sufficient to constitute a quorum, could approve by itself actions that require a majority vote at shareholder meetings, which may not be in the best interest of our other shareholders. Furthermore, UMW China Ventures (L) Ltd., or UMW China Ventures, which beneficially owns approximately 22.5% of our issued share capital as of the date of this annual report will have significant influence over our business. UMW China Ventures is a wholly-owned subsidiary of UMW Holdings Berhad, or UMW. Our vice chairman, Badrul Feisal bin Abdul Rahim, was nominated by UMW. To the extent the interests of EMH or UMW conflict with the interests of other shareholders, the interests of other shareholders may be disadvantaged and harmed. Moreover, we have in the past entered into related party transactions with affiliates of EMH and UMW, and we expect to continue to enter into related party transactions, subject to our audit committee’s review and approval, if applicable. 17 Table of Contents We have limited insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at a relatively early stage of development. We have determined that balancing the risks of disruption or liability from our business, or the loss or damage to our property, including our facilities, equipment and office furniture, the cost of insuring for these risks on the one hand, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms on the other hand, makes it impractical for us to have such insurance. As a result, we only maintain property insurance with respect to our operations that covers general property, plant and equipment, and shipping and transportation. We do not have any product liability insurance covering our products, except for limited product liability insurance covering our products sold in North America by Houston OCTG. A large number of our product liability insurance policies for products sold by Houston OCTG have reached their maximum payouts. We do not maintain business interruption or key-man insurance in China. Consequently, any uninsured occurrence of loss or damage to property, litigation or business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The occurrence of certain incidents including fire, severe weather, earthquake, war, flooding, power outages and the consequences resulting from them may not be covered adequately, or may not be covered at all, by our insurance policies. If we were to incur substantial liabilities that were not covered by our insurance, or if our business operations were interrupted for more than a short period of time, we could incur costs and losses that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We may not be able to obtain the necessary PRC government authorizations, land use rights certificates or building ownership certificates for some of our properties and plants. Pursuant to an agreement entered into in July 2008 with Hebei Bishi, WSP China acquired Mengfeng, a company located in Inner Mongolia, China. However, we have not obtained the necessary PRC government authorizations for Mengfeng’s blast furnace project, the land use rights certificate for a piece of property of approximately 89,233 square meters and any of the ownership certificates for Mengfeng’s buildings. In addition, we do not have the land use rights certificates or building ownership certificates for certain plants or facilities owned by three of our other subsidiaries. We are in the process of obtaining PRC government authorizations, land use rights certificates and building ownership certificate for these properties. However, we may not be able to obtain them. If we fail to obtain such authorization or certificates in a timely manner, or at all, we may be subject to severe penalties and fines, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Economic and political conditions and instability in Thailand may adversely affect our operations. WSP Pipe’s operations are subject to the changing economic and political conditions in Thailand. Our results of operations may be influenced in part by the political situation in Thailand, which is unstable. The political upheavals may have a severe adverse effect on Thailand’s economic and democratic development. Current and future political instability in Thailand could have a material adverse effect on our businesses and operations. In addition, we cannot assure you that the Thai government would not amend foreign ownership rules or impose additional restrictions on foreign ownership that would have an adverse effect on our business. We are subject to litigation proceedings brought by third-parties. If any of the proceedings against us is successful, it may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We are subject to litigation proceedings brought by third-parties. For instance, in August 2009, Western Oil Gas Development Corp. brought a lawsuit against us in a district court in Canadian County, Oklahoma, alleged that a casing pipe provided by us caused damages to its well. In May 2010, WSP China was subject to a lawsuit in a district court in Desoto Parish, Louisiana, as the manufacturer of a casing pipe used in an alleged oil and gas well operation failure. In August 2010, WSP China was subject to a third-party petition in the District Court of Lipscomb County, Texas, as the manufacturer of a casing pipe in an alleged oil and gas well operation failure. In March 2011, Cimarex Energy Co. filed a lawsuit against us, WSP China, Houston OCTG and other defendants in Nueces County, Texas, seeking total damages in the amount of $11.0 million resulting from defects in casing pipes provided by us. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to litigation proceedings brought by our suppliers for raw materials and services that we have purchased from them and additional damages, we have incurred significant costs as a result of these proceedings, including settlement payments. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal proceedings” for further information about the lawsuits. We believe that the allegations in these cases are without merit and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against the claims. The outcome of these cases, like other litigation proceedings, is uncertain. We cannot assure you that in the future we will not be subject to litigation proceedings brought by third-parties arising from our operations or products. Regardless of their merit, litigation and other preparations undertaken to defend such cases can be costly, and we may incur substantial costs and expenses in doing so. They may also divert the attention of our management from our business and operations. If any of the cases against us is successful, it may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Risks related to doing business in China China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as governmental policies, could affect the financial markets in China, our liquidity and access to capital and our ability to operate our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. More generally, if the business environment in China deteriorates from the perspective of domestic or international investors, our business in China may also be adversely affected. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could materially and adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our subsidiaries in China. PRC laws and regulations govern our operations in China. Our subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations that may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations, including those related to bill financing arrangements (See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Regulations—Regulations on negotiable instruments” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—B. Liquidity and Capital Resources—Bill financing”), involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our domestic, overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or SAFE Circular 75. To further clarify and simplify the implementation of SAFE Circular 75, SAFE issued the Implementing Rules Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of the Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 19, effective on July 1, 2011. According to SAFE Circular 75 and Circular 19, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore enterprise for the purpose of financing that offshore enterprise with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise in China, each PRC resident, whether a natural or legal person, must complete certain overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch. An amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed upon certain prescribed events. If our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents do not complete their registration with the local SAFE authorities, our PRC subsidiaries will be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries. 19 Table of Contents We are committed to complying, and to ensuring that our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents, comply with the SAFE Circular 75 requirements. However, we may not at all times be fully aware or informed of the identities of all our beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents, and we may not always be able to compel our beneficial owners to comply with the SAFE Circular 75 requirements. As a result, we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents will at all times comply with, or in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, SAFE Circular 75 or other related regulations. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. One of our current beneficial owners, Mr. Longhua Piao, who is a PRC resident, has registered with the local SAFE branch as required under these regulations relating to offshore investment activities. However, if Mr. Piao does not timely amend his SAFE registrations pursuant to regulations or if future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents do not comply with the registration procedures, such beneficial owners may be subject to fines and legal sanctions, our ability to contribute additional capital into our PRC subsidiaries and our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to our company may be limited and our business may be adversely affected. The regulations on mergers and acquisitions of PRC enterprises may delay or inhibit our ability to complete certain mergers and acquisitions which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market shares. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission, the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and SAFE, jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. Among other things, this New M&A Rule, established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. Complying with the requirements of the New M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive much of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or make other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under the existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business as well as result in foreign currency exchange losses. Our financial statements are expressed in U.S. dollars. The functional currency of WSP Holdings is U.S. dollars and the functional currency of our PRC operating subsidiaries is Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Following the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the Renminbi appreciated more than 20% against the U.S. dollar over three years. From July 2008 until June 2010, however, the Renminbi traded stably within a narrow range against the U.S. dollar. 20 Table of Contents There remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against foreign currencies. On June 20, 2010, the People’s Bank of China announced that the PRC government would reform the Renminbi exchange rate regime and increase the flexibility of the exchange rate. Between June 20, 2010 and December 31, 2012, the Renminbi appreciated by approximately 9.1% against the U.S. dollar. A substantial portion of our sales is denominated in U.S. dollars and Renminbi, while substantially all of our costs and expenses are denominated in Renminbi. As a result, appreciation of Renminbi could increase our costs. If we were to increase our prices to compensate for the increased costs, we may decrease the market competitiveness of our products. This could result in a decrease in our international sales and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, as we rely primarily on dividends paid to us by WSP China, our operating subsidiary in China for our cash requirement, any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms will also be affected. For example, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our ordinary shares or ADSs or for other business purposes, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Conversely, when converting the U.S. dollars we received from our financing activities and oversea sales into Renminbi for our operations, any appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar will decrease the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. There are only limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. From time to time, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to limit the effects of foreign exchange rate fluctuations on our financial results. However, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives, and expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The PRC government has provided various incentives to foreign invested enterprises. Based on an approval in September 2008 and effective retrospectively from January 1, 2008, WSP China was classified as a “high and new technology enterprise” by the Chinese government. This classification allows WSP China to enjoy a preferential tax rate of 15% instead of the general 25% income tax rate until December 31, 2010. In September 2011, we obtained an approval from the PRC government for a renewal of the “high and new technology enterprise” status, effective retrospectively from January 1, 2011. When our current preferential income tax rate treatment expires in December 2013, WSP China may not continue to qualify as a “high and new technology enterprise” and enjoy the benefit from the preferential tax rate. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Taxation” for more details. Furthermore, value-added tax, or VAT, in China is charged on sales based on the sales price of our products to customers at a general rate of 17%. We are deemed to have paid a 4% VAT tax based on the general rate minus a 13% VAT refund on export sales, which we are entitled to receive upon filing the VAT returns. In July 2007, the PRC tax authorities reduced such refund to 5% for certain steel products, which did not include seamless OCTG products. However, there is no assurance that the rate of refund for seamless OCTG products will not be reduced by the PRC tax authorities in the future, and a decrease of the refund will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the New EIT Law, which may subject us to PRC income tax for our income originated both within and outside the PRC and PRC income tax withholding for any dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders. Under the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT law, enterprises established under the laws of non-PRC jurisdictions, but whose de facto management body is located in the PRC, may be treated as “resident enterprises” for PRC tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as having substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties of the enterprise. Based on our analysis of the current facts, we believe that WSP Holdings and its subsidiary, First Space Holdings Limited, or FSHL, should not be treated as resident enterprises for PRC tax purposes. However, the New EIT Law and its implementing rules are ambiguous in terms of some definitions, requirements and detailed procedures, and currently no official interpretation or application of this new resident enterprise classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear as to how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, our calculation of income taxes generally reflects our status as a non-China tax resident company. If the PRC governmental authorities hold that WSP Holdings or FSHL should be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes after January 1, 2008, the effective date of the New EIT Law, our worldwide income will be subject to PRC income tax at the 25% uniform tax rate, which will include any dividend income we receive from our subsidiaries, unless such dividend income is otherwise exempted from taxable income under the New EIT Law. If we are required to pay income tax for dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Moreover, unlike the previous PRC tax law, which specifically exempts withholding tax on any dividends payable to non-PRC shareholders, the New EIT Law and its implementing rules provide that a withholding tax rate of 10% will be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC shareholders that are derived from sources within the PRC, unless a tax treaty exists between the PRC and the relevant jurisdictions where such non-PRC shareholders reside and such treaty provides for a reduction or exemption of the relevant tax. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and our income mainly comes from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, primarily from those located in China. In 2009, FSHL was recognized by the relevant tax authorities as a tax resident company in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, a withholding tax at 5% will be applicable on PRC dividends paid to FSHL. The relevant tax authorities may evaluate FSHL China’s qualification as a tax resident company in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region. We cannot assure you that FSHL will continue to qualify for such status under evaluations by the tax authorities in the future. In the event the status of FSHL as a tax resident company in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is discontinued, dividends payable to FSHL will become subject to the standard PRC enterprise income tax rate, which could materially increase our tax obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As uncertainties remain regarding the interpretation and implementation of the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, we cannot assure you that if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders and ADS holders would not be subject to any PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by non-PRC investors may be also subject to a 10% withholding tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within China. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and our income mainly comes from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, primarily from those located in China. Due to the lack of publicly available interpretations on this subject, there is uncertainty as to whether the dividends we pay to our non-PRC shareholders or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs will be subject to the 10% withholding tax. If we are required under the New EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on such dividends, your investment in our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks related to natural calamities or health epidemics, which could disrupt our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by natural calamities or health epidemics such as swine influenza, avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics. Any recurrence of natural calamities or epidemics in China or elsewhere may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. Such recurrence may restrict our ability to travel or ship our products inside or outside of China, or may require us to temporary close our manufacturing facilities. Such closures or travel or shipment restrictions would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of swine influenza, avian influenza or any other epidemics. Labor laws in China may adversely affect our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the PRC government promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law imposes greater liabilities on employers and significantly impacts the cost of an employer’s decision to reduce its workforce. Further, it requires certain terminations to be based upon seniority and not the merits of employees. In the event we decide to significantly change or decrease our workforce, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to enact such changes in a manner that is most advantageous to our business or in a timely and cost effective manner, thus materially and adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Risks related to our ADSs Substantial future sales or perceived sales of our ADSs in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. Additional sales of our ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, certain holders of our ordinary shares have the right to cause us to register the sale of a certain number of our shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in these shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act immediately upon the effectiveness of the registration. Sales of these registered shares in the public market could cause the price of our ADSs to decline. You may not have the same voting rights as the holders of our ordinary shares and may not receive voting materials in time to be able to exercise your right to vote. Except as described in this annual report and in the deposit agreement, holders of our ADSs will not be able to exercise voting rights attaching to the shares represented by our ADSs on an individual basis. Holders of our ADSs will appoint the depositary or its nominee to vote the shares represented by the ADSs. You may not receive voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote and it is possible that you, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. Upon our written request, the depositary will mail to you a shareholder meeting notice which contains, among other things, a statement as to the manner in which your voting instructions may be given, including an express indication that such instructions may be given or deemed given to the depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us if no instructions are received by the depositary from you on or before the response date established by the depositary. However, no voting instruction shall be deemed given and no such discretionary proxy shall be given with respect to any matter as to which we inform the depositary that (i) we do not wish such proxy to be given, (ii) substantial opposition exists, or (iii) such matter materially and adversely affect the rights of shareholders. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings and you may not receive cash dividends if it is impractical to make them available to you. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. Also, under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. In addition, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary may, at its discretion, decide that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not practicable to distribute certain property through the mail, or that the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may decide not to distribute that property and you will not receive that distribution. We are a Cayman Islands company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than that under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws than the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. 23 Table of Contents As a result of all of the above, public shareholders of our company may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or the controlling shareholder of our company than they would as shareholders of a U.S. public company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands or China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs, the value of our assets and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2012. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to uncertainty in several respects, and we cannot assure you the U.S. Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination each year as to whether we are a PFIC, and accordingly, even if we were not a PFIC for the taxable year that ended December 31, 2012, our PFIC status may change in the current taxable year or a future taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation—United States federal income taxation—Passive foreign investment company”) held an ADS or an ordinary share, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to that U.S. Holder. See “Item 10. Additional Information—E. Taxation— United States federal income taxation—Passive foreign investment company.” Our ADSs may not comply with the minimum listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. Delisting could adversely affect the liquidity of our ADSs and the market price of our ADSs could decrease, and our ability to obtain adequate financing for the continuation of our operations would be substantially impaired. Our ADSs are currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The New York Stock Exchange has minimum requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on the New York Stock Exchange. These requirements include maintaining a minimum average closing price of $1.00 per share over a period of consecutive 30 trading days. On August 1, 2011, we received notice from the NYSE that the price of our ADSs was below listing requirements. To regain compliance with this requirement, we implemented a change in the ratio of our ADSs to ordinary shares from one ADS representing two ordinary shares to one ADS representing ten ordinary shares, effective as of February 15, 2012. For our ADSs holders, this ratio change has the same effect of a five-for-one ADS reverse split. However, this ratio change may not ensure our future compliance with the New York Stock Exchange continued listing standards relating to minimum average closing price if our ADS price continues to decline. If our ADSs are delisted as a result of our failure to comply with any of the New York Stock Exchange’s minimum listing requirements, the liquidity of our ADSs would be adversely affected, the market price of our ADSs could further decrease, and our ability to obtain adequate financing for the continuation of our operations would be substantially impaired, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents 