ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Throughout this section, when we refer to percentages of revenues or traffic for the year ended December 31, 2009, we are referring to the revenues or traffic of Iridium Holdings prior to the Acquisition and Iridium Holdings combined with our company after the Acquisition. Our business plan depends on both increased demand for mobile satellite services and our ability to successfully implement it. Our business plan is predicated on growth in demand for mobile satellite services. Demand for mobile satellite services may not grow, or may even contract, either generally or in particular geographic markets, for particular types of services or during particular time periods. A lack of demand could impair our ability to sell products and services, develop and successfully market new products and services and could exert downward pressure on prices. Any decline in prices would decrease our revenues and profitability and negatively affect our ability to generate cash for investments and other working capital needs. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan will also depend on a number of other factors, including: • our ability to maintain the health, capacity and control of our existing satellite constellation; • our ability to contract for the design, build and launch of Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services, including the financing thereof and, once launched, our ability to maintain the health, capacity and control of such satellite constellation; • the level of market acceptance and demand for our products and services; • our ability to introduce innovative new products and services that satisfy market demand; • our ability to obtain additional business using our existing spectrum resources both in the United States and internationally; • our ability to sell our products and services in additional countries; • our ability to maintain our relationship with U.S. government customers, particularly the DoD; • the ability of our distributors to market and distribute our products, services and applications effectively and their continued development of innovative and improved solutions and applications for our products and services; 19 Table of Contents • our ability to successfully resolve a dispute with Motorola regarding fees they allege that we owe to them and to license the required intellectual property for Iridium NEXT; • the effectiveness of our competitors in developing and offering similar services and products; and • our ability to maintain competitive prices for our products and services and control costs. We will need additional capital to design, build and launch Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services, and pursue additional growth opportunities. If we fail to obtain sufficient capital, we will not be able to successfully implement our business plan. Our business plan calls for the development of Iridium NEXT, the development of new product and service offerings, upgrades to our current services, hardware and software upgrades to maintain our ground infrastructure and upgrades to our business systems. We estimate the aggregate costs associated with the design, build and launch of Iridium NEXT and related infrastructure upgrades through 2016 to be approximately $2.7 billion, although we have not yet entered into definitive agreements for these activities and our actual costs could substantially exceed this estimate. We expect to fund a substantial portion of these costs from internally generated cash flows, including potential revenues from secondary payloads and warrant proceeds. We expect to finance the remaining cost by raising additional debt or equity financing. However, there can be no assurance that our internally generated cash flows will meet our current expectations or that we will be able to obtain sufficient external capital to fund Iridium NEXT and implement other elements of our business plan, due to increased costs, lower revenues or inability to obtain additional financing. Among other factors leading to this uncertainty, some of the warrants whose proceeds we expect to use to fund a portion of Iridium NEXT are currently “under water,” meaning they have an exercise price per share that is significantly higher than the current price at which our common stock is trading. In addition, none of the warrants are callable by us until such time as our stock trades at a per share price greater than $14.25 for our $7.00 warrants, or $18.00 for our $11.50 warrants, for an extended period of time. As of March 12, 2010 the closing price of our common stock was $8.22 per share. Unless our stock price increases significantly, we would not expect the under-water warrants to be exercised and we will not be able to call any of the warrants. If we do not obtain such funds from internally generated cash flows, or from the net proceeds of future debt or equity financings, our ability to maintain our network, design, build and launch Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services, and pursue additional growth opportunities will be impaired. The recent global economic crisis and related tightening of credit markets has also made it more difficult and expensive to raise capital. Our ability to obtain additional capital to finance Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services, and other capital requirements may be adversely impacted by the continuation of these market conditions. We have engaged Goldman, Sachs & Co. as our lead global advisor to help secure the funding necessary to design, build and launch Iridium NEXT, although we cannot assure you that we will have access to sources of financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to fully implement our business plan as currently projected, if at all, which would significantly limit the development of our business and impair our ability to provide a commercially acceptable level of service. In addition, in the event that we are able to obtain financing, our future agreements governing our indebtedness may require us to carry in-orbit insurance which we do not currently have and may contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • make investments, acquisitions or capital expenditures; • grant liens on our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • merge or consolidate with other entities or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; and • otherwise transfer or sell assets. We may also be required to maintain compliance with specified financial covenants. Complying with these restrictive covenants may impair our ability to finance our operations or capital needs or to take advantage of other favorable business opportunities. Our ability to comply with these restrictive covenants will depend on our future performance, which may be affected by events beyond our control. If we violate any of these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers, we would be in default under the agreement and payment of the indebtedness could be accelerated. The acceleration of our indebtedness 20 Table of Contents under one agreement may permit acceleration of indebtedness under other agreements that contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms or on terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, complying with these covenants may cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of our securities and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business plan and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. Our satellites have a limited life and may fail prematurely, which would cause our network to be compromised and materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and profitability. Since we introduced commercial services in 2001, we have experienced seven satellite losses. Six of our satellites have failed in orbit, which has resulted in either the complete loss of the affected satellites or the loss of the ability of the satellite to carry traffic on the network, and one satellite was lost as a result of a collision with a non-operational Russian satellite. While we expect our current constellation to provide a commercially acceptable level of service through approximately 2014, we cannot guarantee we will be able to provide such level of service through the transition period to Iridium NEXT. Also, our satellites have already exceeded their original design lives and the actual useful lives of our satellites may be shorter than we expect. In addition, additional satellites may fail or collide with space debris or other satellites in the future, and we cannot assure you that our in-orbit spare satellites will be sufficient to replace such satellites or that we will be able to replace them in a timely manner. In-orbit failure may result from various causes, including component failure, loss of power or fuel, inability to control positioning of the satellite, and solar or other astronomical events, including solar radiation and flares and space debris. Other factors that could affect the useful lives of our satellites include the quality of construction, gradual degradation of solar panels and the durability of components. Radiation-induced failure of satellite components may result in damage to or loss of a satellite before the end of its expected life. As our constellation has aged, some of our satellites have experienced individual component failures affecting their coverage or transmission capacity and other satellites may experience such failures in the future, which could adversely affect the reliability of their service. As a result, fewer than 66 of our in-orbit satellites will be fully functioning at any time. Although we do not incur any direct cash costs related to the failure of a satellite, if a satellite fails, we record an impairment charge in our statement of operations reflecting the remaining net book value of that satellite, which could significantly depress our net income for the period in which the failure occurs. From time to time, we are advised by our customers and end-users of temporary intermittent losses of signal cutting off calls in progress, preventing completions of calls when made or disrupting the transmission of data. If the magnitude or frequency of such problems increase and we are no longer able to provide a commercially acceptable level of service, our business and financial results and our reputation would be hurt and our ability to pursue our business plan would be compromised. We may be required in the future to make further changes to our constellation to maintain or improve its performance. Any such changes may require prior FCC approval and the FCC might not give such approval or may subject the approval to other conditions that could be unfavorable to our business. In addition, from time to time we may reposition our satellites within the constellation in order to optimize our service, which could result in degraded service during the repositioning period. Although there are some remote tools we use to remedy certain types of problems affecting the performance of our satellites, the physical repair of our satellites in space is not feasible. Our products could fail to perform or perform at reduced levels of service because of technological malfunctions or deficiencies or events outside of our control which would seriously harm our business and reputation. Our products and services are subject to the risks inherent in a large-scale, complex telecommunications system employing advanced technology. Any disruption to our satellites, services, information systems or telecommunications infrastructure could result in the inability of our customers to receive our services for an indeterminate period of time. These customers include government agencies conducting mission-critical work throughout the world, as well as consumers and businesses located in remote areas of the world where traditional telecommunications services may not be readily available. Any disruption to our services or extended periods of reduced levels of service could cause us to lose customers or revenue, result in delays or cancellations of future implementations of our products and services, result in failure to attract customers or result in litigation, customer service or repair work that would involve substantial costs and distract management from operating our business. The failure of any of the diverse elements of our system, including our satellites, our commercial gateway, or our network operations center to function as required could render our system unable to perform at the quality and capacity levels required for success. Any system failures or extended reduced levels of service could reduce our sales, increase costs or result in liability claims and seriously harm our business. 21 Table of Contents Additional satellites may collide with space debris or another spacecraft, which could adversely affect the performance of our constellation and business. In February 2009, we lost an operational satellite as a result of a collision with a non-operational Russian satellite. Although we have some ability to actively maneuver our satellites to avoid potential collisions with space debris or other spacecraft, this ability is limited by, among other factors, various uncertainties and inaccuracies in the projected orbit location of and predicted conjunctions with debris objects tracked and cataloged by the U.S. government. Additionally, some space debris is too small to be tracked and therefore its orbital location is completely unknown; nevertheless this debris is still large enough to potentially cause severe damage or a failure of our satellites should a collision occur. If our constellation experiences additional satellite collisions with space debris or other spacecrafts, our ability to operate our constellation may be impaired. The space debris created by the February 2009 satellite collision may cause damage to other spacecraft positioned in a similar orbital altitude. The collision of one of our satellites with a non-operational Russian satellite created a space debris field concentrated in the orbital altitude where the collision occurred, and thus increased the risk of space debris damaging or interfering with the operation of our satellites, which travel in this orbital altitude, and satellites owned by third parties, such as U.S. or foreign governments or agencies and other satellite operators. Although there are tools used by us and providers of tracking services, such as the U.S. Joint Space Operations Center, to detect, track and identify space debris, we or third parties may not be able to maneuver the satellites away from such debris in a timely manner. Any such collision could potentially expose us to significant losses and liability. As our product portfolio expands, our failure to manage growth effectively could impede our ability to execute our business plan and we may experience increased costs or disruption in our operations. We currently face a variety of challenges, including maintaining the infrastructure and systems necessary for us to operate as a public company and managing the growth of our business. As our product portfolio continues to expand, the responsibilities of our management team and the company resources also grow. Consequently, we may further strain our management and the company resources with the increased complexities and administrative burdens associated with a larger, more complex product portfolio. Our failure to meet these challenges as a result of insufficient management or other resources could significantly impede our ability to execute our business plan. To properly manage our growth, we may need to hire and retain personnel, upgrade our existing operational management and financial and reporting systems and improve our business processes and controls. Failure to effectively manage the expansion of our product portfolio in a cost-effective manner could result in declines in product and service quality and customer satisfaction, increased costs or disruption of our operations. If we experience operational disruptions with respect to our commercial gateway or operations center, we may not be able to provide service to our customers. Our commercial satellite network traffic is supported by a primary ground station gateway in Tempe, Arizona. In addition, we operate our satellite constellation from our satellite network operations center in Leesburg, Virginia. Currently, we do not have a back-up facility for our gateway and we would not be able to implement our backup to the Virginia operations center in real time if either of those facilities experienced a catastrophic failure. Both facilities are subject to the risk of significant malfunctions or catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events and would be difficult to replace or repair and could require substantial lead-time to do so. Material changes in the operation of these facilities may be subject to prior FCC approval and the FCC might not give such approval or may subject the approval to other conditions that could be unfavorable to our business. Our gateway and operations center may also experience service shutdowns or periods of reduced service in the future as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or regulatory issues. Any such failure would impede our ability to provide service to our customers. If we are unable to effectively develop and deploy Iridium NEXT before our current satellite constellation ceases to provide a commercially acceptable level of service, our business will suffer. We are currently developing Iridium NEXT, which we expect to commence launching in late 2014. While we expect our current constellation to provide a commercially acceptable level of service through approximately 2014, we cannot guarantee it will provide a commercially acceptable level of service through the transition period to Iridium NEXT. If we are unable, for any reason, including as a result of insufficient funds, manufacturing or launch delays, launch failures, in-orbit satellite failures, inability to achieve or maintain orbital placement or delays in receiving regulatory approvals, to deploy Iridium NEXT before our current constellation ceases to provide a commercially acceptable level of service or if we experience backward compatibility problems with our new constellation once deployed, we will likely lose customers and business opportunities to our competitors, resulting in a material decline in revenues and profitability and inability to service debt as our ability to provide a commercially acceptable level of service is impaired. 22 Table of Contents Iridium NEXT may not be completed on time, and the costs associated with it may be greater than expected. We estimate the aggregate costs associated with the design, build and launch of Iridium NEXT and related infrastructure upgrades through 2016 will be approximately $2.7 billion although we have not yet entered into definitive agreements for these activities and our actual costs could substantially exceed this estimate. We may not complete Iridium NEXT and related infrastructure, products and services on time, on budget or at all. The design, manufacture and launch of satellite systems are highly complex and historically have been subject to delays and cost over-runs. Development of Iridium NEXT may suffer from additional delays, interruptions or increased costs due to many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: • lower than anticipated internally generated cash flows; • lower than expected secondary payload funding; • the failure to receive proceeds from the exercise of our outstanding warrants, some of which are currently significantly under water; • our inability to obtain capital to finance Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services on acceptable terms or at all; • requirements imposed by financing sources; • engineering or manufacturing performance falling below expected levels of output or efficiency; • denial or delays in receipt of regulatory approvals or non-compliance with conditions imposed by regulatory authorities; • the breakdown or failure of equipment or systems; • non-performance by third-party contractors, including the prime system contractor; • the inability to license necessary technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all; • use of a new or unproven launch vehicle; • launch delays or failures or in-orbit satellite failures once launched or the decision to manufacture additional replacement satellites for future launches; • labor disputes or disruptions in labor productivity or the unavailability of skilled labor; • increases in the costs of materials; • changes in project scope; • additional requirements imposed by changes in laws; or • severe weather or catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, storms or explosions. While we expect to fund a substantial portion of the costs associated with Iridium NEXT from internally generated cash flows, including potential revenues from secondary payloads and warrant proceeds, we will need to raise additional debt or equity to finance the rest of such costs, including amounts arising from cost-overruns or if internally generated funds, secondary payload funding or warrant proceeds are less than anticipated. Such capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If any of the above events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to develop Iridium NEXT and related infrastructure, products and services. 23 Table of Contents Loss of any Iridium NEXT satellite during launch could delay or impair our ability to offer our services, and launch insurance, to the extent available, will not fully cover this risk. The launch of our Iridium NEXT satellites could be subject to delays and risks. See “—If we are unable to effectively develop and deploy Iridium NEXT before our current satellite constellation ceases to provide a commercially acceptable level of service, our business will suffer” above for more information. We expect to insure a portion of the launch of our Iridium NEXT satellites and self-insure the remaining portion. Launch insurance currently costs approximately 12% to 20% of the insured value of the satellites launched, including launch costs, but may vary depending on market conditions and the safety record of the launch vehicle. In addition, we expect any launch insurance policies that we obtain to include specified exclusions, deductibles and material change limitations. Typically, these insurance policies exclude coverage for damage arising from acts of war, lasers and other similar potential risks for which exclusions are customary in the industry. If launch insurance rates were to rise substantially, our future launch costs could increase. It is also possible that insurance could become unavailable or prohibitively expensive, either generally or for a specific launch vehicle or that new insurance could be subject to broader exclusions on coverage or limitations on losses, in which event we would bear the risk of launch failures. Even if a lost satellite is fully insured, acquiring a replacement satellite may be difficult and time consuming and could delay the deployment of Iridium NEXT. Furthermore, launch insurance typically does not cover lost revenue. We may be unable to obtain and maintain in-orbit liability insurance, and the insurance we obtain may not cover all liabilities to which we may become subject. Pursuant to the TSA with Motorola and pursuant to the agreement between Iridium Satellite, Boeing, Motorola and the U.S. government, Iridium Satellite is required to maintain an in-orbit liability insurance policy with a de-orbiting endorsement. The current policy together with the de-orbiting endorsement covers amounts that Iridium Satellite and other named parties may become liable to pay for bodily injury and property damages to third parties related to processing, maintaining and operating our satellite constellation and, in the case of the de-orbiting endorsement, de-orbiting our satellite constellation. The current policy has a one-year term, which expires December 12, 2010 and excludes coverage for all third-party damages relating to the 2009 collision of our satellite with a non-operational Russian satellite. The price, terms and availability of insurance have fluctuated significantly since we began offering commercial satellite services. The cost of obtaining insurance can vary as a result of either satellite failures or general conditions in the insurance industry. Higher premiums on insurance policies would increase our cost. In-orbit liability insurance policies on satellites may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In addition to higher premiums, insurance policies may provide for higher deductibles, shorter coverage periods and additional policy exclusions. For example, our current de-orbit insurance covers only twelve months from attachment and therefore would not cover losses arising outside that timeframe. Our failure to renew Iridium Satellite’s current in-orbit liability insurance policy or obtain a replacement policy would trigger de-orbit rights held by the U.S. government, Motorola and Boeing, which, if exercised, would eliminate our ability to provide mobile satellite communications services. See “—The U.S. government, Motorola and Boeing may unilaterally require us to de-orbit our current constellation upon the occurrence of certain events” below for more information. In addition, even if Iridium Satellite continues to maintain any in-orbit liability insurance policy, the coverage may not protect us against all third-party losses, which could be material. Iridium Satellite’s current in-orbit liability insurance policy contains, and we expect any future policies would likewise contain, specified exclusions and material change limitations customary in the industry. These exclusions may relate to, among other things, losses resulting from in-orbit collisions such as the one we experienced in 2009, acts of war, insurrection, terrorism or military action, government confiscation, strikes, riots, civil commotions, labor disturbances, sabotage, unauthorized use of the satellites and nuclear or radioactive contamination, as well as claims directly or indirectly occasioned as a result of noise, pollution, electrical and electromagnetic interference and interference with the use of property. In addition to Iridium Satellite’s in-orbit liability insurance policy, Motorola maintains product liability insurance to cover its potential liability as the manufacturer of the satellites. Motorola may not in the future be able to renew its product liability coverage on reasonable terms and conditions, or at all. Any failure by Motorola to maintain its insurance, if not maintained by us on its behalf, could increase our exposure to third-party damages that may be caused by any of our satellites. We do not maintain in-orbit insurance covering losses from satellite failures or other operational problems affecting our constellation. We do not maintain in-orbit insurance covering losses that might arise as a result of a satellite failure or other operational problems affecting our constellation and our future lenders may require us to obtain and maintain such insurance. We may not be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms, if at all. If we are not able to obtain in-orbit insurance in the face of a covenant requiring us to do so, we may be unable to obtain a waiver which would trigger an event of default and would likely accelerate repayment of all outstanding borrowings. Even if we obtain in-orbit insurance in the future, the coverage may not be sufficient to compensate us for satellite failures and other operational problems affecting our satellites. As a result, a failure of one or more of our satellites or the occurrence of equipment failures and other related problems would constitute an uninsured loss and could harm our financial condition. 24 Table of Contents We may be negatively affected by current global economic conditions. Our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as individual consumers, businesses and governments may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values or budgetary constraints. For example, one of our VARs, which represented approximately 20% of our total M2M data revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009, is currently substantially behind on payment. If we choose to terminate our relationship with this VAR for non-payment, there is no guarantee that these end-user subscribers, with whom we do not have a direct relationship, will migrate to another of our service providers or VARs to purchase our products and services. If these customers do not continue to purchase our products and services, it would dramatically decrease our subscriber growth rate. Reduced demand would cause a decline in our revenues and make it more difficult for us to operate profitably, potentially compromising our ability to pursue our business plan. While we expect the number of our subscribers and revenues to continue to grow, we expect the future growth rate will be slower than our historical growth and may not continue in every quarter of every year. We expect our future growth rate will be impacted by the current economic slowdown, increased competition, maturation of the satellite communications industry and the difficulty in sustaining high growth rates as we increase in size. Any substantial appreciation of the U.S. dollar may also negatively impact our growth by increasing the cost of our products and services in foreign countries. We could lose market share and revenues as a result of increasing competition from companies in the wireless communications industry, including cellular and other satellite operators, and from the extension of land-based communication services. We face intense competition in all of our markets, which could result in a loss of customers and lower revenues and make it more difficult for us to enter new markets. We compete primarily on the basis of coverage, quality, portability and pricing of services and products. There are currently six other satellite operators providing services similar to ours on a global or regional basis: Inmarsat, Globalstar, ORBCOMM, SkyTerra, Thuraya and ACeS International Limited, or Asia Cellular Satellite. In addition, several regional mobile satellite services companies, including ICO, TerreStar and SkyTerra, are attempting to exploit their spectrum positions into a U.S. consumer mobile satellite services business. The provision of satellite-based services and products is subject to downward price pressure when capacity exceeds demand or as a result of aggressive discounting by some operators under financial pressure to expand their respective market share. Some satellite operators, for example, subsidize the prices of their products, such as satellite handsets and we expect two new handsets to enter the market during 2010. In addition, we may face competition from new competitors or new technologies. For example, we may face competition for our land-based services in the United States from incipient ATC service providers who are currently raising capital and designing a satellite operating business and a terrestrial component around their spectrum holdings. In addition, some of our competitors have announced plans for the launch of additional satellites. As a result of competition, we may not be able to successfully retain our existing customers and attract new customers. In addition to our satellite-based competitors, terrestrial voice and data service providers, both wireline and wireless, are expanding into rural and remote areas and providing the same general types of services and products that we provide through our satellite-based system. Although satellite communications services and terrestrial communications services are not perfect substitutes, the two compete in some markets and for some services. Consumers generally perceive terrestrial wireless voice communication products and services as cheaper and more convenient than those that are satellite-based. Many of our terrestrial competitors have greater resources, wider name recognition and newer technologies than we do. In addition, industry consolidation could hurt us by increasing the scale or scope of our competitors and thereby making it more difficult for us to compete. Much of the hardware and software we use in operating our gateway was designed and manufactured over ten years ago and portions are becoming more difficult and expensive to service, upgrade or replace. Much of the hardware and software we use in operating our gateway was designed and manufactured over ten years ago and portions are becoming obsolete. As they continue to age, they may become less reliable and will be more difficult and expensive to service, upgrade or replace. Although we maintain inventories of some spare parts, it nonetheless may be difficult or impossible to obtain all necessary replacement parts for the hardware. Our business plan contemplates updating or replacing some of the hardware and software in our network, but the age of our existing hardware and software may present us with technical and operational challenges that complicate or otherwise make it not feasible to carry out our planned upgrades and replacements, and the expenditure of resources, both from a monetary and human capital perspective, may exceed our estimates. Without upgrading and replacing our equipment, obsolescence of the technologies that we use could have a material adverse affect on our revenues, profitability and liquidity. 25 Table of Contents Rapid and significant technological changes in the satellite communications industry may impair our competitive position and require us to make significant additional capital expenditures. The satellite communications industries are subject to rapid advances and innovations in technology. We may face competition in the future from companies using new technologies and new satellite systems. New technology could render our system obsolete or less competitive by satisfying customer demand in more attractive ways or through the introduction of incompatible standards. Particular technological developments that could adversely affect us include the deployment by our competitors of new satellites with greater power, flexibility, efficiency or capabilities than our current constellation or Iridium NEXT, as well as continuing improvements in terrestrial wireless technologies. For us to keep up with technological changes and remain competitive, we may need to make significant capital expenditures. Customer acceptance of the products and services that we offer will continually be affected by technology-based differences in our product and service offerings compared to those of our competitors. New technologies may be protected by patents or other intellectual property laws and therefore may not be available to us. Any failure by us to implement new technology within our system may compromise our ability to compete. Use by our competitors of L-band spectrum for terrestrial services could interfere with our services. In February 2003, the FCC adopted rules that permit satellite service providers to establish ATC networks. ATC frequencies are designated in previously satellite-only bands. The implementation of ATC services by satellite service providers in the United States or other countries may result in increased competition for the right to use L-band spectrum in the 1.6 GHz band, which we use to provide our services, and such competition may make it difficult for us to obtain or retain the spectrum resources we require for our existing and future services. In addition, the FCC’s decision to permit ATC services was based on assumptions relating to the level of interference that the provision of ATC services would likely cause to other satellite service providers that use the L-band spectrum. If the FCC’s assumptions prove inaccurate, or the level of ATC services provided exceeds those estimated by the FCC, ATC services could interfere with our satellites and devices, which may adversely impact our services. Outside the United States, other countries are actively considering implementing regulations to facilitate ATC services. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our network and those of our third-party service providers and our customers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully obtain or use information on the network or cause interruptions, delays or malfunctions in our operations, any of which could harm our reputation, cause demand for our products and services to fall and compromise our ability to pursue our business plans. Recently, there have been reported a number of significant, wide-spread security breaches that have compromised network integrity for many companies and governmental agencies, in some cases reportedly originating from outside the United States in countries such as China. In addition, there are reportedly private products available in the market today which attempt to unlawfully intercept communications made on our network. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by any breaches. In addition, our customer contracts, in general, do not contain provisions which would protect us against liability to third-parties with whom our customers conduct business. Although we have implemented and intend to continue to implement industry-standard security measures, these measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could lower network operations center availability which could harm our business. Sales to U.S. government customers, particularly the DoD, represent a significant portion of our revenues. The U.S. government, through a dedicated gateway owned and operated by the DoD, has been and continues to be, directly and indirectly, our largest customer, representing 23.6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. We provide the majority of our services to the U.S. government pursuant to two contracts, both of which were entered into in April 2008, that provide for a one-year base term and up to four additional one-year options exercisable at the election of the U.S. government . The U.S. government has notified us that it intends to renew for the second additional one-year term, which will extend the term through March 2011. The U.S. government may terminate these agreements, in whole or in part, at any time. If the U.S. government terminates its agreements with us or fails to renew such agreements, we would lose a significant portion of our revenues. Our relationship with the U.S. government is subject to the overall U.S. government budget and appropriation decisions and processes. U.S. government budget decisions, including with respect to defense spending, are based on changing government priorities and objectives, which are driven by numerous factors, including geopolitical events and macroeconomic conditions, and are beyond our control. Significant changes to U.S. defense spending, including as a result of the resolution of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, or a significant reduction in U.S. personnel in those countries, could reduce demand for our services and products by the U.S. government. 26 Table of Contents We are dependent on third parties to market and sell our products and services. We rely on third-party distributors to market and sell our products and services to end-users and to determine the prices end-users pay. We also depend on our distributors to develop innovative and improved solutions and applications integrating our product and service offerings. As a result of these arrangements, we are dependent on the performance of our distributors to generate substantially all of our revenues. Our distributors operate independently of us, and we have limited control over their operations, which exposes us to significant risks. Distributors may not commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products and services and may also market and sell competitive products and services. In addition, our distributors may not comply with the laws and regulatory requirements in their local jurisdictions, which may limit their ability to market or sell our products and services. If current or future distributors do not perform adequately, or if we are unable to locate competent distributors in particular countries and secure their services on favorable terms, or at all, we may be unable to increase or maintain our revenues in these markets or enter new markets, and we may not realize our expected growth, and our brand image and reputation could be hurt. In addition, we may lose distributors due to competition, consolidation, regulatory developments, business developments affecting our distributors or their customers or for other reasons. Any future consolidation of our distributors or the acquisition of a distributor by a competitor, such as the April 2009 acquisition of Stratos Global Corporation, one of our largest distributors, by Inmarsat, one of our main competitors, would further increase our reliance on a few key distributors of our services and the amount of volume discounts that we may have to give such distributors. Our ten most active distributors for the year ended December 31, 2009, accounted for, in the aggregate, 48.3% of total revenues. The loss of any of these distributors could reduce the distribution of our products and services as well the development of new product solutions and applications. We rely on a limited number of key vendors for timely supply of equipment and services. Celestica is the manufacturer of all of our current devices, including our mobile handsets, L-Band transceivers and short burst data modems. Celestica may choose to terminate its business relationship with us when its current contractual obligations are completed in January 1, 2011, or at such earlier time as contemplated by our current agreement with Celestica. If Celestica terminates this relationship, we may not be able to find a replacement supplier. In addition, as our sole supplier, we are very dependent on Celestica’s performance. If Celestica has difficulty manufacturing or obtaining the necessary parts or material to manufacture our products, we could lose sales. In addition, we utilize other sole source suppliers for certain component parts of our devices. If such suppliers terminated their relationships with us or were otherwise unable to manufacture our component parts, Celestica would be unable to manufacture our products. Although we may replace Celestica or other sole source suppliers with another supplier, there could be a substantial period of time in which our products are not available and any new relationship may involve a significantly different cost structure, development schedule and delivery times and we may encounter technical challenges in successfully replicating the manufacturing processes. In addition, we depend on Boeing to provide operations and maintenance services with respect to our satellite network, including engineering, systems analysis and operations and maintenance services, from our technical support center in Chandler, Arizona and our satellite network operations center in Leesburg, Virginia. Boeing provides these services pursuant to the O&M Agreement, whose term is concurrent with the expected useful life of our current constellation. Technological competence is critical to our business and depends, to a significant degree, on the work of technically skilled employees, such as our Boeing contractors. If Boeing’s performance falls below expected levels or if Boeing has difficulties retaining the employees or contractors servicing our network, the operations of our satellite network could be compromised. In addition, if Boeing terminates its agreement with us, we may not be able to find a replacement provider on favorable terms or at all, which could impair the operations and performance of our network. Replacing Boeing as the operator of our satellite system could also trigger de-orbit rights held by the U.S. government, which, if exercised, would eliminate our ability to offer satellite communications services altogether. See “—The U.S. government, Motorola and Boeing may unilaterally require us to de-orbit our constellation upon the occurrence of specified events” below for more information. Our agreements with Motorola contain potential payment provisions that may apply to the Acquisition; and Motorola has filed a complaint in Illinois state court seeking to compel us to make those payments. The TSA with Motorola provides for the payment to Motorola of up to $8.5 million plus accrued interest on certain principal upon the occurrence of a “triggering event.” A “triggering event” means the first to occur of: (a) a “change of control,” as defined below, (b) the consummation of an initial public offering by Iridium Holdings or Iridium Satellite, (c) a sale of all or a material portion of the assets of Iridium Holdings or Iridium Satellite or (d) December 11, 2010. A change of control means, subject to specified exceptions, the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) any initial investor, together with such person’s affiliates, shall have acquired beneficial ownership of interests entitling the holders thereof to more than 50% of the income of, or the liquidation proceeds from, Iridium Holdings; (ii) any person who is not an initial investor, together with such person’s affiliates and with other 27 Table of Contents persons constituting a “group” as defined in U.S. securities laws, shall have acquired beneficial ownership of interests entitling the holders thereof to more than 50% of the income of, or the liquidation proceeds from, Iridium Holdings; or (iii) Iridium Holdings shall cease to own 100% of the equity interests of Iridium Satellite. Iridium Holdings had been accruing the portion of the potential $8.5 million to which it believes it is subject through December 31, 2009 in its historical financial statements and now our company is doing the same. The Senior Subordinated Term Loan Agreement, or the Note Agreement, with Motorola also has future payment obligations. Under the Note Agreement, we are required to pay Motorola a commitment fee of $5.0 million upon the earlier of December 11, 2010 and the occurrence of a “trigger event.”A “trigger event” means the first to occur of: (a) a change of control as defined in the Note Agreement, (b) the consummation of an initial public offering by Iridium Holdings or Iridium Satellite, or (c) the sale of all or a material portion of the assets of Iridium Holdings or Iridium Satellite. Iridium Holdings has been accruing this future payment obligation in its historical financial statements through December 31, 2009 and now our company is doing the same. Furthermore, under the Note Agreement, in the event of a “distribution event,” we are required to pay Motorola a loan success fee equal to the amount that a holder of Class B units in Iridium Holdings constituting 5% of the total number of issued and outstanding units, both Class A and B, would have received in the distribution event. A distribution event means the (a) direct or indirect (i) payment of any dividend or other distribution, in the form of cash or otherwise, in respect of the equity interests of Iridium Holdings or (ii) purchase, conversion, redemption or other acquisition for value or otherwise by Iridium Holdings of any equity interest in Iridium Holdings or (b) initial public offering or any secondary public offering by Iridium Holdings or Iridium Satellite in which any holders of equity interests in Iridium Holdings are afforded the opportunity to participate as a selling equity holder in such offering. In addition to the above obligations, upon the first to occur of (a) any change of control, as defined in the Note Agreement, or (b) the sale of all or a material portion of the assets of Iridium Holdings or Iridium Satellite, we are required to pay a cash amount equal to the lesser of (i) an amount to be determined based on a multiple of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization less capital contributions not returned to Class A Unit holders of Iridium Holdings and the amount of the $5.0 million commitment fee discussed above which has been or is concurrently being paid and (ii) the value of the consideration that a holder of Class B Units in Iridium Holdings constituting 5% of the total number of issued and outstanding units, both Class A and B, would receive in the transaction. On February 9, 2010, Motorola filed a complaint against our wholly owned subsidiaries Iridium Holdings and Iridium Satellite in Illinois state court. In this action, Motorola alleges that the closing of the Acquisition in September 2009 constituted a change of control for purposes of the Note Agreement; that such change of control triggered Iridium Satellite’s obligation to make the commitment fee and the success fee payments to Motorola under the Note Agreement as described above; that pursuant to a guarantee agreement between Motorola and Iridium Holdings, Iridium Holdings has guaranteed all payments to be made by Iridium Satellite under the Note Agreement; and that Iridium Satellite has breached the Note Agreement by failing to make such payments and Iridium Holdings has breached its guaranty by failing to make payment for such sums owed by Iridium Satellite. Motorola is seeking a declaratory judgment that the Acquisition constituted a change of control for purposes of the Note Agreement and damages of at least $24,680,000 relating to such change of control. See “Legal Proceedings” appearing elsewhere in this report for more information about Motorola’s complaint. We believe that it is unclear whether and how the provisions of the TSA and the Note Agreement were intended to apply to a transaction such as the Acquisition. Notwithstanding Motorola’s filing of the complaint, we and Motorola are continuing to discuss an appropriate resolution under the provisions of the TSA and the Note Agreement, but there can be no assurances as to the manner in which this matter will be resolved, whether by negotiation or in court, and what amount of fees, if any, we might be required to pay to Motorola. If a declaratory judgment is granted that the Acquisition constituted a change of control, Motorola would also have the right to terminate our intellectual property licenses and potentially the right to de-orbit our constellation. See “—We are dependent on intellectual property licensed from Motorola and other third parties” and “—The U.S. government, Motorola and Boeing may unilaterally require us to de-orbit our constellation upon the occurrence of specified events” for more information about these rights. We are dependent on intellectual property licensed from Motorola and other third parties. We license critical system technology, including certain software and systems to operate and maintain our network as well as technical information for the design and manufacture of our devices, from Motorola. This intellectual property is essential to our ability to continue to operate our constellation and sell our handsets. We maintain our licenses with Motorola pursuant to several agreements. These agreements can be terminated by Motorola upon: (i) any material change to certain portions of the certificate of formation and operating agreement of our subsidiary that is party to the agreements; (ii) any change of control, as defined in the TSA; (iii) the commencement by Iridium Satellite of any voluntary bankruptcy proceeding; or (iv) our 28 Table of Contents material failure to perform or comply with any provision of the agreements. Although Motorola’s recent complaint filed in Illinois state court does not purport to implicate our license agreements with them, if the court were to hold that the Acquisition constituted a change of control, then Motorola would also have the right to terminate certain of these licenses. For more information, see “—Our agreements with Motorola contain potential payment provisions which may apply to the Acquisition; and Motorola has filed a complaint in Illinois state court seeking to compel us to make those payments” above. In addition, Motorola has an annual right of non-renewal in respect of one of the intellectual property license agreements. Motorola has assigned a portion of the patents comprising these licenses to a third-party. We also license additional system technology from several other third parties. If Motorola or any such third party were to terminate any license agreement or cease to support and service this technology, or if we are unable to renew such licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all, it may be difficult, more expensive or impossible to obtain such services from alternative vendors. Any substitute technology may also have lower quality or performance standards, which would adversely affect the quality of our products and services. In connection with the design, manufacture and operation of Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services, we may be required to obtain additional intellectual property rights from Motorola and other third parties, including, potentially, a third party to whom Motorola has advised us that it has transferred some of the patents rights associated with our existing network. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such intellectual property rights on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such intellectual property rights or are unable to obtain such rights on commercially reasonable terms, we may not complete Iridium NEXT and related ground infrastructure, products and services on budget or at all. We have been and may in the future become subject to claims that our products violate the patent or intellectual property rights of others, which could be costly and disruptive to us. We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation. As a result, we or our products may become subject to intellectual property infringement claims or litigation. The defense of intellectual property suits, even if frivolous, is both costly and time consuming and may divert management’s attention from other business concerns. An adverse determination in litigation to which we may become a party could, among other things: • subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, including treble damages; • require disputed rights to be licensed from a third party for royalties that may be substantial; • require us to cease using such technology; or • prohibit us from selling some or all of our products or offering some or all of our services. Conducting and expanding our operations outside the United States involves special challenges. We have significant operations outside the United States. According to our estimates, commercial data traffic originating outside the United States accounted for 74.7% of total data traffic for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 68.9% of total data traffic for the for the year ended December 31, 2009, while commercial voice traffic originating outside the United States accounted for 90.1% of total voice traffic for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 90.2% of total voice traffic for the year ended December 31, 2009. We cannot provide the precise geographical distribution of end-users because we do not contract directly with them. Instead, we determine the country in which we earn our revenues based on where we invoice our distributors. These distributors sell services directly or indirectly to end-users, who may be located or use our products and services elsewhere. We are also seeking authorization to offer to sell our services in China, Russia and South Africa. Conducting operations outside the United States involves numerous special risks and, while expanding our international operations would advance our growth, it would also increase these risks. These include: • difficulties in penetrating new markets due to established and entrenched competitors; • difficulties in developing products and services that are tailored to the needs of local customers; • lack of local acceptance or knowledge of our products and services; • lack of recognition of our products and services; • unavailability of or difficulties in establishing relationships with distributors; • significant investments, including the development and deployment of dedicated gateways as certain countries require physical gateways within their jurisdiction to connect the traffic coming to and from their territory; 29 Table of Contents • instability of international economies and governments; • changes in laws and policies affecting trade and investment in other jurisdictions; • exposure to varying legal standards, including intellectual property protection in other jurisdictions; • difficulties in obtaining required regulatory authorizations; • difficulties in enforcing legal rights in other jurisdictions; • local domestic ownership requirements; • requirements that certain operational activities be performed in-country; • changing and conflicting national and local regulatory requirements; and • foreign currency exchange rates and exchange controls. These risks could affect our ability to successfully compete and expand internationally. The prices for our products are typically denominated in U.S. dollars. Any appreciation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies will increase the cost of our products and services to our international customers and, as a result, may reduce the competitiveness of our international offerings and make it more difficult for us to grow internationally. We are currently unable to offer service in important regions of the world due to regulatory requirements, which is limiting our growth and our ability to compete. Our ability to provide service in certain regions is limited by local regulations as some countries, including China, India and Russia, have specific regulatory requirements such as local domestic ownership requirements or requirements for physical gateways within their jurisdiction to connect traffic coming to and from their territory. While we are currently in discussions with parties in these countries to satisfy these regulatory requirements, we may not be able find an acceptable local partner or reach an agreement to develop additional gateways or the cost of developing and deploying such gateways may be prohibitive, which could impair our ability to expand our product and service offerings in such areas and undermine our value for potential users who require service in these areas. The inability to offer to sell our products and services in all major international markets could impair our international growth. In addition, the construction of such gateways in foreign countries may require us to comply with certain U.S. regulatory requirements which may contravene the laws or regulations of the local jurisdiction. The U.S. government, Motorola and Boeing may unilaterally require us to de-orbit our constellation upon the occurrence of specified events. When Iridium Satellite purchased the assets of Iridium LLC out of bankruptcy, Boeing, Motorola and the U.S. government required specified de-orbit rights as a way to control potential liability risk arising from future operation of the constellation, and provide for the U.S. government’s obligation to indemnify Motorola. As a result, an agreement was entered into among Iridium Satellite, Boeing, Motorola and the U.S. government, and the U.S. government obtained the right to, in its sole discretion, require us to de-orbit our constellation upon the occurrence of any of the following: (a) Iridium Satellite’s failure to pay certain insurance premiums or maintain insurance; (b) Iridium Satellite’s bankruptcy; (c) Iridium Satellite’s sale or the sale of any major asset in our satellite system; (d) Boeing’s replacement as the operator of our satellite system; (e) Iridium Satellite’s failure to provide certain notices as contemplated by the agreement; or (f) at any time after June 5, 2009, unless extended by the U.S. government. The U.S. government also has the right to require us to de-orbit any of our individual functioning satellites, including in-orbit spares, that have been in orbit for more than seven years, unless the U.S. government grants a postponement. All of our functioning satellites have been in orbit for more than seven years and we are currently in discussion with the U.S. government to extend the 2009 deadline. Motorola also has the right to require us to de-orbit our constellation pursuant to the TSA and pursuant to the O&M Agreement between our subsidiary and Boeing. Under these agreements, Motorola may require the de-orbit of our constellation upon the occurrence of any of the following: (a) Iridium Holdings’ bankruptcy or the bankruptcy of Iridium Constellation or Iridium Satellite; (b) Iridium Holdings’ breach of the TSA; (c) Boeing’s breach of the O&M Agreement or a related agreement between Boeing and Motorola; (d) an order from the U.S. government requiring the de-orbiting of our satellites; (e) Motorola’s determination that changes in law or regulation may require it to incur specified costs relating to the operation, maintenance, re-orbiting or de-orbiting of our constellation; or (f) Motorola’s failure to obtain on commercially reasonable terms, product liability insurance to cover its 30 Table of Contents position as manufacturer of the satellites, provided the U.S. government has not agreed to cover what would have otherwise been paid by such policy. Although Motorola’s recent complaint filed in Illinois state court does not purport to implicate the TSA or the O&M Agreement, if the court were to hold that the Acquisition constituted a change of control, then Motorola would also have the right to de-orbit our constellation. For more information, see “—Our agreements with Motorola contain potential payment provisions which may apply to the Acquisition; and Motorola has filed a complaint in Illinois state court seeking to compel us to make those payments” above. Pursuant to the O&M Agreement, Boeing similarly has the unilateral right to de-orbit our constellation upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) Iridium Constellation’s or Iridium Satellite’s bankruptcy; (b) the existence of reasonable grounds for Boeing to question the financial stability of Iridium Constellation; (c) Iridium Constellation’s failure to maintain certain insurance policies; (d) Iridium Constellation’s failure to provide Boeing quarterly financial statements; (e) Iridium Constellation’s breach of the O&M Agreement, including its payment obligation thereunder; or (f) changes in law or regulation that may increase the risks or costs associated with the operation or re-orbit process or the cost of operation or re-orbit of the constellation. We cannot guarantee that the U.S. government, Motorola or Boeing will not unilaterally exercise their de-orbiting rights upon the occurrence of any of the above events. A decision by any of the U.S. government, Motorola or Boeing to de-orbit our constellation would eliminate our ability to provide mobile satellite communications services. Wireless devices may pose health and safety risks and, as a result, we may be subject to new regulations, demand for our services may decrease and we could face liability based on alleged health risks. There has been adverse publicity concerning alleged health risks associated with radio frequency transmissions from portable hand-held telephones that have transmitting antennae. Lawsuits have been filed against participants in the wireless industry alleging various adverse health consequences, including cancer, as a result of wireless phone usage. Although we have not been party to any such lawsuits, we may be exposed to such litigation in the future. While we comply with applicable standards for radio frequency emissions and power and do not believe that there is valid scientific evidence that use of our phones poses a health risk, courts or governmental agencies could find otherwise. Any such finding could reduce our revenues and profitability and expose us and other wireless providers to litigation, which, even if frivolous or unsuccessful, could be costly to defend. If consumers’ health concerns over radio frequency emissions increase, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. Further, government authorities might increase regulation of wireless handsets as a result of these health concerns. The actual or perceived risk of radio frequency emissions could reduce the number of our subscribers and demand for our products and services. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation, which mandates how we may operate our business and may increase our cost of providing services, slow our expansion into new markets and subject our services to additional competitive pressures or regulatory requirements. Our ownership and operation of a satellite communication system is subject to significant regulation in the United States by the FCC and in foreign jurisdictions by similar local authorities. The rules and regulations of the FCC or these foreign authorities may change and such authorities may adopt regulations that limit or restrict our operations as presently conducted or as we plan to conduct such operations. Such authorities may also make changes in the licenses of our competitors that impact our spectrum. Failure to provide services in accordance with the terms of our licenses or failure to operate our satellites or ground stations as required by our licenses and applicable laws and government regulations could result in the imposition of government sanctions on us, including the suspension or cancellation of our licenses. We and our affiliates must pay FCC filing and annual filing fees in connection with our licenses. One of our subsidiaries, Iridium Carrier Services LLC, holds a common carrier radio license and is thus subject to regulation as a common carrier, including limitations and prior approval requirements with respect to direct or indirect foreign ownership. This subsidiary currently qualifies for exemptions from certain common carrier regulations, such as being required to file certain reports or pay certain fees. A change in the manner in which we provide service or a failure to comply with common carrier regulations or pay required fees can result in sanctions including fines, loss of authorizations, or the denial of applications for new authorizations or the renewal of existing authorizations. Our system must be authorized in each of the markets in which we provide services. We may not be able to obtain or retain all regulatory approvals needed for our operations. Regulatory changes, such as those resulting from judicial decisions or adoption of treaties, legislation or regulation in countries where we currently offer products and services or intend to offer products and services, including the United States, may also significantly affect our business. Because regulations in each country are different, we may not be aware if some of our distribution partners and/or persons with which we or they do business do not hold the requisite licenses and approvals. 31 Table of Contents We are required to obtain homologation certifications from the national and local authorities in the countries in which we operate in connection with the products that we currently sell or may wish to sell in the future. Failure to obtain such homologation certifications or other industry standard certifications could compromise our ability to generate revenue and conduct our business. Our current regulatory approvals could now be, or could become, insufficient in the view of domestic or foreign regulatory authorities, any additional necessary approvals may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all, in jurisdictions in which we currently plan to offer products and services, and applicable restrictions in those jurisdictions could become unduly burdensome. Our operations are subject to regulations of the U.S. State Department’s Office of Defense Trade Controls relating to the export of satellites and related technical data, the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control relating to financial transactions and the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security relating to our handsets. We are also required to provide certain U.S. and foreign government law enforcement and security agencies with call interception services. In the course of seeking regulatory approval of the Acquisition, we discussed with the U.S. Department of Justice, or DOJ, procedures we used to satisfy our respective call interception obligations under licenses issued by the Australian and Canadian authorities. We have informed the DOJ and notified the Australian and Canadian authorities that we have discontinued such procedures until such time as the DOJ expressly authorizes their use. There can be no assurance that the discontinued procedures will be permitted to be reinstated or will not result in legal liability for us. We are currently in discussions with the Australian and Canadian authorities to obtain amendments or waivers to our licenses in those countries. Neither Australia nor Canada is obligated to grant such amendments or waivers and there can be no assurance that Australian and Canadian authorities will not suspend or revoke our licenses or take other legal actions. These U.S. and foreign obligations and regulations may limit or delay our ability to offer products and services in a particular country. As new laws and regulations are issued, we may be required to modify our business plans or operations. If we fail to comply with these regulations in the United States or any other country, we could be subject to sanctions that could make it difficult or impossible to operate in the United States or such other country. In addition, changing and conflicting national and local regulatory requirements may cause us to be in compliance with local requirements in one country, while not being in compliance with the laws and regulations of another. Any imposition of sanctions, losses of licenses and failure to obtain the authorizations necessary to use our assigned radio frequency spectrum and to distribute our products in certain countries could cause us to lose sales, hurt our reputation and impair our ability to pursue our business plan. Our business would be negatively impacted if the FCC revokes, modifies or fails to renew or amend our licenses. FCC licenses we hold, specifically a license for the satellite constellation, licenses for our U.S. gateway and other ground facilities and blanket earth station licenses for U.S. government customers and commercial subscribers, are subject to revocation if we fail to satisfy specified conditions or to meet prescribed milestones. The FCC licenses are also subject to modification by the FCC. While our FCC satellite constellation license is valid until 2013, we are required in August 2010 to apply for a license renewal with the FCC. The U.S. gateway earth station licenses expire between 2011 and 2022 and the U.S. government customer and commercial subscribers’ earth station licenses will expire in 2021. We must file renewal applications for earth station licenses between 30 and 90 days prior to expiration. There can be no assurance that the FCC will renew the FCC licenses we hold. If the FCC revokes, modifies or fails to renew FCC licenses we hold, or if we fail to satisfy any of the conditions of our respective FCC licenses, we may not be able to continue to provide mobile satellite communications services. Pursuing strategic transactions may cause us to incur additional risks. We may pursue acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions, although no such transactions that would be financially significant to us are probable at this time. We may face costs and risks arising from any such transactions, including integrating a new business into our business or managing a joint venture. These risks may include adverse legal, organizational and financial consequences, loss of key customers and distributors and diversion of management’s time. In addition, if we were to choose to engage in any major business combination or similar strategic transaction, we may require significant external financing in connection with the transaction. Depending on market conditions, investor perceptions of our company and other factors, we might not be able to obtain capital on acceptable terms, in acceptable amounts or at appropriate times to implement any such transaction. Any such financing, if obtained, may further dilute existing stockholders. 32 Table of Contents Spectrum values historically have been volatile, which could cause our value to fluctuate. Our business plan is evolving and it may in the future include forming strategic partnerships to maximize value for our spectrum, network assets and combined service offerings in the United States and internationally. Values that we may be able to realize from such partnerships will depend in part on the value ascribed to our spectrum. Valuations of spectrum in other frequency bands historically have been volatile, and we cannot predict at what amount a future partner may be willing to value our spectrum and other assets. In addition, to the extent that the FCC takes action that makes additional spectrum available or promotes the more flexible use or greater availability of existing satellite or terrestrial spectrum allocations, for example by means of spectrum leasing or new spectrum sales, the availability of such additional spectrum could reduce the value of our spectrum authorizations and the value of our business. Prior to the Acquisition, we did not have any operations and Iridium Holdings never operated as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations as a public company will be expensive and time consuming. Prior to the Acquisition, we operated as a public company that did not have operations. Iridium Holdings, as a private company, has not been required to prepare or file periodic and other reports with the SEC under applicable federal securities laws, to comply with the requirements of the federal securities laws applicable to public companies, or to document and assess the effectiveness of its internal controls in order to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or Sarbanes-Oxley. Although we maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting with respect to our activities, we have not been required to establish and maintain internal control over financial reporting with respect to Iridium Holdings. Deficiencies in controls may affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis or accurately, which could adversely affect our financial results or investors’ confidence and our ability to access external financing. In addition, under Sarbanes-Oxley and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, we are required to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements and accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations require significant time and resources from our management, finance and accounting staff and will significantly increase our legal, insurance and financial compliance costs. As a result our costs as a percentage of revenue will likely be higher. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose members of our senior management team or key technical personnel. We depend on the continued service of key managerial and technical personnel, as well as our ability to continue to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. We compete for such personnel with other companies, government entities, academic institutions and other organizations. The unexpected loss or interruption of the services of such personnel could compromise our ability to effectively manage our operations, execute our business plan and meet our strategic objectives. If any of the sellers of Iridium Holdings have breached any of their representations, warranties or covenants set forth in the agreement relating to the Acquisition, our remedies for losses may be limited and we may be limited in our ability to collect for such losses. Each seller agreed to indemnify us for breaches of its individual representations, warranties and covenants, subject to specified limitations, including that each seller’s maximum liability for all indemnification claims against it will not exceed the sum of (i) the cash consideration received by such seller and (ii) the product of the number of shares of our common stock received by such seller and $10.00. Except for the pledge arrangements we have entered into with the sellers of the blocker holding companies described below, there are no escrow or other similar arrangements with any of the sellers and, in the event we suffer losses from a breach of a seller’s representations, warranties or covenants, there can be no assurances that such seller will have the cash consideration or shares of our common stock received by such seller, or other available assets, to compensate us for our losses. Any losses realized in connection with the breach of any representation, warranty or covenant by any seller may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of the sellers in the Acquisition held their interests in Iridium Holdings through two “blocker” corporations, known as Baralonco N.V., or Baralonco, and Syncom-Iridium Holdings Corp., or Syncom, and in those circumstances we purchased ownership of those blocker corporations instead of directly purchasing the Iridium Holdings units they held. These blocker corporations are now our wholly owned subsidiaries. Each of the sellers of Baralonco and Syncom agreed to indemnify us for the pre-closing tax liabilities of their respective blocker corporation, subject to specified limitations. The maximum liability for the seller of Syncom cannot exceed $3.0 million and the maximum liability for the seller of Baralonco cannot exceed $15.0 million. In support of their respective tax indemnity obligations, the seller of Syncom pledged 300,000 shares of our common stock it received in the Acquisition for a period of nine months after the closing and the seller of Baralonco pledged 33 Table of Contents 1.5 million shares of our common stock it received in the Acquisition for a period of two years after the closing. The value of these pledged shares, and the amount of the sellers’ respective maximum liability, may not fully cover all pre-closing tax liabilities of Baralonco and Syncom, in which case we would be liable for any excess liability. The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to substantial fluctuations. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock may include: • failure in the performance of our current or future satellites or a delay in the launch of Iridium NEXT; • failure to obtain adequate financing in a timely manner; • actual or anticipated variations in our operating results, including termination or expiration of one or more of our key contracts, or a change in sales levels under one or more of our key contracts; • stockholders currently subject to lock-up agreements selling a significant number of their shares after the expiration thereof in September 2010; • stockholders with registration rights exercising such registration rights and selling a large number of shares of our common stock; • changes in financial estimates by industry analysts, or any failure by us to meet or exceed any such estimates, or changes in the recommendations of any industry analysts that elect to follow our common stock or the common stock of our competitors; • actual or anticipated changes in economic, political or market conditions, such as recessions or international currency fluctuations; • actual or anticipated changes in the regulatory environment affecting our industry; • changes in the market valuations of our competitors; and • announcements by our competitors regarding significant new products or services or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, divestitures, joint ventures or other strategic initiatives. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. If the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the trading volume for our common stock historically has been low. Sales of significant amounts of shares of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We do not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and, because we currently intend to retain all cash we generate to fund the growth of our business, we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 34 Table of Contents 