D. Risk Factors Our financial statements indicate that there is a going concern uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our ongoing financing needs as well as to obtain third party financing. We suffered significant operating loss, working capital deficiency and negative operating cash flow while a significant amount of short-term borrowings is required to be refinanced. In addition, we experienced a significant decline in sales in the United States in 2009 and 2010 as compared to 2008 due to the anti-dumping and countervailing duty on seamless pipes made in China, which resulted in a low capacity utilization of our production facilities. In connection with the global credit and economic crisis, some of our customers experienced reduction in cash flows resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to tightening of the credit markets, had significant adverse effects on the financial conditions of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Moreover, we depend on a limited number of customers, and therefore, any decline in our major customers’ businesses in these markets could lead to a decline in purchase orders from these customers, in which case, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially 4 and adversely affected. We rely largely on operating cash flow and short-term borrowings for the working capital needs of our operations. As of December 31, 2010, our total bank and other borrowings amounted to $732.4 million, of which $596.5 million were short-term bank borrowings. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: · limit our ability to satisfy our obligations under our debt; · increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to servicing and repaying our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our businesses and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; · impair our ability to develop business opportunities or make strategic acquisitions; and · increase the cost of additional financing. In addition, our facility agreements with certain commercial banks contained various covenants. A failure to maintain the financial covenants, or a breach of any of the other restrictive covenants, would result in a default under the relevant facility agreements. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient cash or assets to repay the loans under the facility agreements. The existence of these conditions raise the issue about our ability to continue as a going concern. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debts and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may (i) seek additional financing, (ii) seek to refinance some or all of our debts or (iii) dispose of certain assets. In August 2011, we entered into a syndicated bank credit facility agreement with two major lead commercial banks and six other participating commercial banks, which provide us with a syndicated bank credit facility of up to RMB3.5 billion ($547.9 million) (with an initial commitment of RMB2.86 billion ($447.7 million)) for a term up to 3 years from the first drawdown date. The interest will accrue on a daily basis at a rate equal to 105% of the prevailing interest rate published by the People’s Bank of China on the unpaid principal balance then outstanding. The existence of a going concern uncertainty could affect our ability to obtain financing from third parties or could result in increased costs of such financing. See Note 2 to our financial statements for more details. We believe that we will be able to renew a substantial portion of our bank borrowings and bank credit facilities when they fall due. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in the amounts we need or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. The incurrence of debt would divert cash for working capital and capital expenditures to service debt obligations and could result in operating and financial covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We cannot assure you that we can refinance some or all of our existing facilities on commercially reasonable terms and in a timely manner. Our ability to refinance existing facilities and borrow additional funds is affected by a variety of factors including (i) limitations imposed on us under the financing agreements that contain restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions that may limit our ability to raise additional debt, (ii) the decline in liquidity in the credit markets, (iii) prevailing interest rates, (iv) the strength of the lenders from whom we borrow, and (iv) changes of PRC government’s policies in connection with commercial loans. An event of default, any material negative change of our operation and financial conditions, an adverse action by a regulatory authority or a general deterioration in the economy that constricts the availability of credit may increase our cost of funds and make it difficult for us to renew existing credit facilities and obtain new loans. In the event that we are unable to meet our liabilities when they become due or if our creditors take legal actions against us for payment, we may have to liquidate long-term assets to repay our creditors. We may have difficulty converting our long-term assets into current assets in such a situation and may suffer material losses upon the sale of our long-term assets. Restrictive covenants under our facility agreements and any future indebtedness may limit the manner in which we operate and an event of default under any of our facility agreements and any future indebtedness 5 may adversely affect our operations; and our financial leverage may hinder our ability to expand and materially affect our results of operations. Our facility agreements with certain commercial banks, contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants and conditions that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debts; · secure loans, make capital expenditures or engage in investments and acquisitions; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · create liens; · announce cash dividends; · make major investments; · merge or consolidate with other companies, implement any divesture, reorganization, restructuring, discontinuance of business, receivership, bankruptcy, dissolution or other similar proceedings; and · dispose, lease, transfer or sell more than 10% of our assets. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and may be unable to engage in certain business activities. Some of the facility agreements also include certain financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain debt to assets ratio. For example, in August 2011, we entered into a syndicated bank credit facility agreement with two major lead commercial banks and six other participating commercial banks, which provide us with a syndicated bank credit facility of up to RMB3.5 billion ($547.9 million) (with an initial commitment of RMB2.86 billion ($447.7 million)) for a term up to 3 years from the first drawdown date. The interest will accrue on a daily basis at a rate equal to 105% of the prevailing interest rate published by the People’s Bank of China on the unpaid principal balance then outstanding. This agreement contains financial covenants, which are applicable to one of our major subsidiaries, including maintenance of levels of debt to assets ratio not exceeding 72% in 2011, 71% in 2012 and 67% in 2013, minimum sales of RMB4 billion in 2011, RMB4.5 billion in 2012 and RMB5.5 billion in 2013, minimum net profit of RMB80 million in 2011, RMB150 million in 2012 and RMB350 million in 2013, minimum current ratio of 170% in 2011, 180% in 2012 and 180% in 2013, and minimum quick ratio of 120% in 2011, 130% in 2012 and 130% in 2013. A failure to maintain the financial covenants, or a breach of any of the other restrictive covenants, would result in a default under the relevant facility agreements. Upon the occurrence of any default under any of the facility agreements, the lender could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interests and fees, to be due and payable, or could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient cash or assets to repay the loans under the facility agreements. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, we may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. In addition, our failure to comply with the financial or other covenants under the facility agreements could lead us to seek a waiver of the covenants contained in the facility agreements. Based on the financial position and results of one of our subsidiaries, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009, such subsidiary failed to meet the financial covenant as to the maximum debt to assets ratio under the facility agreements with two banks. We agreed to implement measures to address such breach and obtained a waiver of such breach from each of the banks. Nonetheless, there was a delay in implementing certain remedial measures required by the banks and we remained non-complaint with the financial covenant in 2010, which gave rise to the right of the banks to accelerate repayment of the outstanding amount under the relevant facility agreement. The breach of covenant was rectified in April 2011. Otherwise, we have complied with the financial covenants under the other facility agreements in 2010 and as of the date of the annual report. We cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with the covenants contained in the facility agreements in the future, and if we breach the covenants, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain a waiver of the breaches of covenants contained in the facility agreements or obtain alternative financing at commercially reasonable terms. Accordingly, we reclassified our long- term loans of $105.4 million from such banks into short-term loans due within one year. Furthermore, we 6 cannot assure you that any default under the existing facility agreements will not result in a cross-default in our other loans with banks in the PRC. Such event of default may result in a substantially amount of our debt becoming immediately due, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make scheduled payments under our financing agreements and any future financing transactions and our ability to refinance our debts, if necessary, will depend, among other things, on our future operating performance. See above for a discussion on the risks regarding our ability to service our debts. Declines in domestic and international oil and natural gas prices, or domestic and international exploration, drilling and production activities, would adversely affect our profitability. Demand for our OCTG products depends significantly on the number of domestic and worldwide oil and gas wells drilled, completed and reworked, as well as the depth and drilling conditions of these wells. The level of such drilling activities in turn depends on the level of capital spending by major oil and gas companies. A decline in domestic and worldwide oil and gas exploration, drilling and production activities would adversely affect our results of operations. Capital spending on OCTG used for oil and natural gas exploration, drilling and production activities is driven in part by the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas and the perceived stability and sustainability of those prices. The global credit and economic crisis may reduce worldwide demand for energy and result in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices can reduce our customers’ activities and their spending on our products. If the current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or continue for an extended period, this could reduce our customers’ levels of expenditures and have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. The reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with reduced availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to tightening of the credit markets, could have significant adverse effects on the financial conditions of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, oil and natural gas prices are subject to significant volatility due to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in the supply and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, world events, regulatory control (including by the PRC government), political developments in petroleum producing regions and the price and availability of alternative energy sources. We cannot assure you that oil and natural gas prices will not decline further or that such prices will remain at sufficiently high levels to support levels of investment in exploration, drilling and production activities that will sustain demand for our products. Any further decline in the price of oil and natural gas, even for a short period of time, may reduce or curtail expenditures by oil and gas companies in connection with exploration, drilling and production activities, which may result in lower sales volumes and prices for our products in the PRC and overseas and materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by increases in raw material prices. Steel is the principal raw material for our products. Cost for raw materials accounted for 77.9%, 74.4% and 73.4% of our cost of revenues in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Any increase in the price of steel could reduce our profit margin if we are unable to pass such increased costs on to our customers. From the end of 2003 to mid-2008, the price of steel increased substantially due in part to increasing demand, which significantly affected our gross margin. The price of steel became volatile in the first quarter of 2009 and was on an upwards trend since the second quarter of 2009 through the rest of the year. The price of steel has been on a rising trend through 2010 and the first half of 2011, albeit with a certain degree of volatility. We expect the price of steel to be generally on an upwards trend in the second half of 2011, but with certain volatility. The price of steel has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact on our cost of revenues. If we are unable to manage our purchases of steel at prices acceptable to us or if the price of steel increase significantly and we are not able to pass on all or part of any such price increases to our customers, our profit margins may decrease and our results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 7 Measures such as initiation of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings and imposition of anti-dumping and/or countervailing duties by governments in our overseas markets could materially and adversely affect our export sales. Anti-dumping and anti-subsidy proceedings have been initiated by some countries in relation to steel products, resulting in anti-dumping and/or countervailing duties being imposed by those countries on steel products. Those and other similar measures could trigger trade disputes in the international steel product markets that could adversely affect our exports. In April 2009, seven U.S. companies and the United Steelworkers Union filed a petition with the U.S. International Trade Commission, or the ITC, and the U.S. Department of Commerce, or the DOC, alleging that China-based OCTG manufacturers unfairly dumped OCTG products in the U.S. market and that Chinese producers were benefitting from massive government subsidies. Wuxi Seamless Oil Pipes Company Limited, or WSP China, was named as one of the major exporters of OCTG products from China. In June 2009, we were included as one of the mandatory respondent companies to the United States government’s countervailing duty investigation. On September 8, 2009, a preliminary determination was issued with a countervailing duty rate of 24.92% assigned to WSP China. On December 7, 2009, the DOC published its final determination in the countervailing duties investigation with a rate of 14.61% assigned to WSP China. The rate was subsequently changed to 14.95% in January 2010 due to certain ministerial errors made by the DOC. We were not selected as a mandatory respondent to the anti-dumping investigation and participated in this case as a separate rate respondent. In November 2009, we received a preliminary dumping rate of 36.53%, which was based on the average dumping rates of other OCTG producers that were selected as mandatory respondents. In December 2009, this rate was amended to 96.51% due to certain ministerial errors made by the DOC. On April 9, 2010, the DOC announced its final determination in the anti-dumping investigation with a rate of 29.94% assigned to WSP China. In May 2010, the ITC made a final ruling which requires all Chinese exports of OCTG products to the United States, including WSP China’s products, be subject up to approximately 32.07% of anti-dumping duties and 14.95% of countervailing duties. The anti-dumping and countervailing duties are applied to all Chinese exports of OCTG products to the United States starting from the date of the DOC’s preliminary determinations. WSP China did not export OCTG products to the United States after the date of the DOC’s preliminary determinations. The anti-dumping and countervailing duties will apply to us if WSP China exports OCTG products to the United States in the future and we are not subject to any other penalties or fines. In 2008, 2009 and 2010, products sold to the United States by our subsidiaries accounted for 34.3%, 9.0% and 9.7% of our net revenues, respectively. The decrease in export revenue of products sold to the United States as a percentage of our net revenues mainly was attributable to the effect of anti-dumping and countervailing duties on the subject goods. As a result of the proceedings, our sales in the U.S. suffered and our results of operations have been materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that there will not be similar actions taken in the future in other countries against Chinese-made seamless OCTG products. If there were any action filed against us regarding the products we sell, even without merit, it would divert significant company resources and management attention and could have an adverse impact on the prices and sales of our products in the relevant countries. It could also adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. If any decision is entered against us in such an action, we may be subject to additional tariff liabilities and our overseas sales would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of customers, and any loss of these customers could materially and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our customers include oil and gas companies in the PRC and abroad. Aggregate sales attributable to our five largest customers represented approximately 46.5%, 61.7% and 46.5% of our net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or improve our relationships with these customers, or that we will be able to continue to supply products to these customers at current levels or at all. In addition, our business is affected by competition in the oil and gas industry, and any decline in our major customers’ businesses in these markets could lead to a decline in purchase orders from these customers. If any of our key customers were to substantially reduce the size or amount of the orders they place with us or were to terminate their business relationship with us entirely, we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain orders from other customers to replace any such lost sales on comparable terms or at all. If any of these relationships were to be so altered and we were unable to obtain replacement orders, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 8 Our sales contracts typically have a term of less than six months and, as a result, customers may reduce their orders or terminate their relationships with us almost immediately. Sales of our products are typically conducted through sales contracts with a term of less than six months. As a result, our customers may choose to terminate their relationship with us after completion of the shipment or expiration of the contract, as the case may be. Our customers are also not obligated to continue placing orders with us at historical levels or at all. If any of our customers, particularly our key customers, were to materially reduce their orders with us or were to terminate entirely their business relationship with us with short notice, we might not have sufficient time to locate alternative customers and our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our products will pass periodic inspection by the American Petroleum Institute, or API, or the qualification processes of potential customers, and any failure by us to pass such inspection or qualifications would adversely affect our business prospects and results of operations. We have obtained certificates from API to use the official API monogram on our products to demonstrate that our products meet API standards. These certificates are subject to periodic inspections by API. Furthermore, our growth strategies include increasing our sales in the PRC domestic market, as well as expanding into international markets such as North America, South America, the Middle East, Asia, Africa and Russia. It is standard industry practice that an OCTG manufacturer must first pass a qualification process to become an approved supplier of an oil and gas company before providing OCTG products to that company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain the necessary certifications from API or approvals for new products from our existing customers or approvals from any new customers. Even if we can ultimately secure such approvals or certifications, we cannot assure you that such certifications and approvals can be obtained in a timely manner or can be maintained. If we fail to become an approved supplier of our potential customers, or if we are unable to obtain or maintain such approval in a timely manner, we may not be able to execute our expansion plans and our business prospects and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to compete effectively in the OCTG industry, our revenues may decrease and losses may increase. We face intense competition in the domestic and international markets in which we operate. Domestically, we face competition from a number of manufacturers that produce OCTG that are similar to ours. Our major domestic competitors include Tianjin Pipe (Group) Corporation, Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation and Pangang Group Chengdu Iron & Steel Co., Ltd., which are mostly state-owned enterprises. We also face competition from international manufacturers, such as JFE Steel Corporation in Japan, US Steel in the United States, Tenaris in Argentina, Vallourec & Mannesmann Tubes in France, TMK in Russia and Sumitomo in Japan. Our major competitors may have longer operating history, larger customer base, stronger customer relationships, greater brand or name recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. Some of our competitors may also be better positioned to develop superior product features and technological innovations and be able to better adapt to market trends than we are. Our ability to compete depends on, among other things, high product quality, short lead-time, timely delivery, competitive pricing, wide range of product offerings and superior customer service and support. Increased competition may require us to reduce our prices or increase our costs and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any decrease in the quality of our products or the level of our service to our customers or any occurrence of a price war among our competitors and us may adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to remain competitive, we may not be able to increase or even maintain our current share of the OCTG market in China or overseas. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in implementing our future expansion plans, in particular our plans for international expansion, or in managing our growth. One of the principal components of our future strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our production capacity and further developing our overseas sales. For example, as a part of our international expansion strategy, in April 2008, we established our wholly-owned subsidiary, Houston OCTG Group, Inc., in Houston, Texas. In April 2009, WSP China established Chaoyang Seamless Oil Steel Casting Pipes Co., Ltd., or Chaoyang Seamless, in Chaoyang, Liaoning Province, China. In February 2010, we acquired WSP Pipe Company Limited, or WSP Pipe, a company in the Thai-Chinese Rayong Industrial Zone, Thailand from Mr. Piao Longhua, our chairman and chief executive officer. In February 2010, Bazhou Seamless Oil Pipes Co., 9 Ltd., or Bazhou Seamless, established a wholly-owned subsidiary, Kuitun Seamless Special Steel Company Co., Ltd. or Kuitun Seamless, in Kuitun, Xinjiang Autonomous Region, China. We anticipate that we will continue to expand through organic growth and selective acquisitions. Our future growth will depend on a number of factors, including but not limited to, our ability to manage expansion and overseas operations, obtain any required financing, achieve operational efficiency, and secure sufficient access to raw materials. Some of these factors are beyond our control. As a result, we may not be able to successfully manage our growth or expand our operations or receive satisfactory return on our investments in the expansion of our production capacity and international expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may need to increase the number of our employees and enhance our operational and financial systems to handle the increased complexity and the expanded geographical coverage of our operations associated with our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract and retain qualified management staff and employees or that our current operational and financial systems and controls will be adequate to accommodate future growth. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to manage these risks effectively, they could impair our ability to expand our business overseas. We have focused on international expansion in certain mature OCTG markets. In order to succeed, we need to take market share away from the existing suppliers of seamless OCTG in these markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in these competitive markets. Moreover, our plans for international expansion may be hindered by the following: · cultural differences and other difficulties in staffing and managing overseas operations; · inherent difficulties and delays in contract enforcement and collection of receivables through the use of foreign legal systems; · volatility in currency exchange rates; · the risk that foreign countries may impose withholding taxes (or otherwise tax our foreign income or place restrictions on repatriation of profit); · the risk of barriers, such as anti-dumping and other tariffs or other restrictions being imposed on foreign trade; · changes in the political, regulatory, or economic conditions in a foreign country or region; and · the burden of complying with foreign laws and regulations. If we are unable to manage these risks effectively, our ability to conduct or expand our business overseas would be impaired, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain members of our senior management team and other key personnel. Our future success is dependent on the efforts, performance and abilities of key members of our management team, particularly Mr. Piao Longhua, our chairman and chief executive officer. Mr. Piao founded our company and has extensive industry experience. We do not maintain key person insurance on any of our management personnel. As the OCTG industry in the PRC becomes more competitive, we expect the competition for management and other skilled personnel to intensify. Failure to attract and retain qualified employees or the loss of any member of our senior management may result in a loss of organizational focus, poor operating execution or an inability to identify and execute potential strategic initiatives such as overseas expansion and new product offerings. This could, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Our business relies on our ability to retain and attract experienced sales staff and our ability to maintain and expand our existing sales networks both domestically and overseas. Our experienced sales staff constitutes an essential part of our business. In the domestic PRC market, our sales staff possesses strong technical backgrounds in the OCTG industry, which enable them to provide and deliver on-site technical support to our customers. We rely on our four sales offices located in the Daqing, Changqing, Xinjiang and Sichuan oilfields to directly sell our products to the major oilfields in the PRC. In addition to providing on-site services to our customers throughout the sales process and after-sales support, our sales staff also helps us maintain good relationships with our customers. Internationally, we sell our products through our distributors and sales agents. The loss of services of any of our experienced sales staff without timely replacement, the inability to attract and retain sales personnel, or the loss of any of our major distributors or sales agents may have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to maintain our existing sales network, our operations may be materially and adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for a majority of our raw material requirements, and interruption of raw material delivery could prevent us from delivering our products in a timely manner to our customers in the required quantities, and in turn result in order cancellations, decreased revenue and loss of market share. Our operations depend on our ability to obtain adequate and quality supplies of our primary raw materials, namely, round steel billets and green pipes, in a timely manner. If our suppliers fail to meet our quality standards or our quantity demands, our production and sales volume and our results of operation may be adversely affected. Through our upstream acquisition of Tuoketuo County Mengfeng Special Steel Co., Ltd., or Mengfeng, from Hebei Bishi Industry Group Co., Ltd., or Hebei Bishi, in July 2008, establishment of Chaoyang Seamless in April 2009, and acquisition of certain tangible and intangible assets from a sponge iron and steel billet company in Liaoning province through Chaoyang Seamless in July 2009, we expect to stabilize the supply, quality and cost of our raw materials. Mengfeng and Chaoyang Seamless started their commercial production of steel billets in August and September of 2009, respectively. We expect Mengfeng and Chaoyang Seamless to fulfill at least two thirds of the steel billets requirement for our production in 2011. However, before our own steel manufacturing facilities are substantially utilized, we will continue to rely on major suppliers to supply round billets to us. See “