ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, before investing in our securities. If any of the following risks materialize, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are a development stage company and have not generated any revenue, and our business will not succeed if we are unable to commercialize successfully our cellulosic gasoline and diesel. We are a development stage company with a limited operating history, and we have not yet commercialized our cellulosic gasoline and diesel nor have we generated any revenue. We are subject to the substantial risk of failure facing businesses seeking to develop new products. Certain factors that could, alone or in combination, prevent us from successfully commercializing our products include: • technical challenges developing our commercial production processes that we are unable to overcome; • our ability to finance the roll-out of our planned standard commercial production facilities, including securing private or public debt and/or equity financing, project financing and/or federal, state and local government incentives; • our ability to achieve commercial-scale production of cellulosic gasoline and diesel on a cost-effective basis and in the time frame we anticipate; • our ability to secure and maintain customers to purchase any cellulosic gasoline and diesel we produce from our planned commercial production facilities; • our ability to produce cellulosic gasoline and diesel that meet our potential customers’ specifications; • our ability to secure access to sufficient feedstock quantities at economic prices; • our ability to secure and maintain all necessary regulatory approvals for the production, distribution and sale of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel and to comply with applicable laws and regulations; and • actions of direct and indirect competitors that may seek to enter the renewable transportation fuels markets in competition with us or that may seek to impose barriers to one or more aspects of the cellulosic gasoline and diesel business that we are pursuing. We have a history of net losses, and we expect significant increases in our costs and expenses to result in continuing losses as we seek to commercialize our cellulosic gasoline and diesel. We have incurred substantial net losses since our inception, including net losses of $64.1 million, $45.9 million and $14.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect these losses to continue. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $130.4 million. We expect to incur additional costs and expenses related to the continued development and expansion of our business, including our research and development expenses, continued testing and development at our pilot and demonstration units and engineering and design work and construction of our planned commercial production facilities. We have not yet commercialized our cellulosic gasoline and diesel nor have we generated any revenue. We cannot assure you that we will ever achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. We have no experience producing cellulosic gasoline and diesel at the scale needed for the development of our business or in building the facilities necessary for such production, and we will not succeed if we cannot effectively scale our proprietary technology platform and process design. We must demonstrate our ability to apply our proprietary technology platform and process design at commercial scale to convert biomass into cellulosic gasoline and diesel on an economically viable basis. Such production will require that our proprietary 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements technology platform and process design be scalable from our demonstration unit to commercial production facilities. We have not yet completed construction of or operated a commercial-scale production facility, and our technology may not perform as expected when applied at the scale that we plan or we may encounter operational challenges for which we are unable to devise a workable solution. In particular, our initial-scale commercial production facility under construction in Columbus, Mississippi is a first-of-kind project, and we cannot assure you that it will be completed on the schedule that we intend or at all. If and when completed, our initial-scale commercial production facility may not process biomass at designed levels or produce our cellulosic gasoline and diesel at acceptable yields, and we may be unable to improve its performance. As a result of these risks, we may be unable to achieve commercial-scale production in a timely manner, or at all. If these risks materialize, our business and ability to commercialize our cellulosic gasoline and diesel would be materially and adversely affected. The actual cost of constructing, operating and maintaining the facilities necessary to produce our cellulosic gasoline and diesel in commercial volumes may be significantly higher than we plan or anticipate. The production of commercial volumes of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel will require the construction of commercial-scale facilities. The construction of these new facilities will require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital, which may exceed our estimates. We may be unable to complete these facilities at the planned costs, on schedule or at all. The construction of new facilities may be subject to construction cost overruns due to labor costs, labor shortages or delays, costs of equipment and materials, weather delays, inflation or other factors, which could be material. In addition, the construction of our facilities may be subject to the receipt of approvals and permits from various regulatory agencies. Those agencies may not approve the projects in a timely manner or may impose restrictions or conditions on a production facility that could potentially prevent construction from proceeding, lengthen its expected completion schedule and/or increase its anticipated cost. If and when our facilities are constructed, our operating and maintenance costs may be significantly higher than we anticipate. In addition, our facilities may not operate as efficiently as we expect and may experience unplanned downtime, which may be significant. As a result, our initial-scale commercial production facility under construction in Columbus, Mississippi or one or more of the planned standard commercial production facilities may be unable to achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We will need substantial additional capital in the future in order to expand our business. We require substantial additional capital to grow our business, particularly as we continue to design, engineer and construct our commercial production facilities. The extent of our need for additional capital will depend on many factors, including our ability to obtain equity and debt financing from various public or private sources and to meet any related equity contribution requirements, whether we succeed in producing cellulosic gasoline and diesel at commercial scale, our ability to control costs, the progress and scope of our research and development projects, the effect of any acquisitions of other businesses or technologies that we may make in the future and the filing, prosecution and enforcement of patent claims. We believe that our $131.6 million of cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2011 and the proceeds from our January 2012 $75 million term loan will enable us to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months from December 31, 2011. Future financings that involve the issuance of equity securities would cause our existing stockholders to suffer dilution. In addition, debt financing sources may be unavailable to us and any debt financing may subject us to restrictive covenants that limit our ability to conduct our business. We may be unable to raise sufficient additional funds on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to raise sufficient funds, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop products or technologies, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. If this happens, we may be forced to delay the construction of commercial production facilities, delay, scale back or terminate research or development programs or the commercialization of products resulting from our technologies, curtail or cease operations or obtain funds through collaborative and licensing arrangements that may require us to relinquish commercial rights or grant licenses on terms that are unfavorable to us. If adequate funds are unavailable, we will be unable to execute successfully our business plan or to continue our business. We have significant indebtedness which is secured by all of our assets, which may limit cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business and may negatively impact our ability to expand our business. As of March 16, 2012, we had $76.2 million principal amount of debt outstanding under our January 2012 loan because we paid-in-kind the interest. This loan is secured by all of the assets of the company, including our intellectual property assets. The terms of our January 2012 $75 million term loan require that we raise at least $100 million from sales of our equity securities before we make capital expenditures exceeding $25 million on our planned first standard commercial production facility in Mississippi. In addition, we agreed to consummate the sale, in one or more transactions, of our equity securities with gross cash proceeds equal to at least $50 million on or before March 31, 2013, provided that we are not required to consummate such transactions so long as we maintain cash or liquid funds equal to at least 6 month of our projected operating cash requirements in accounts subject to the Lenders’ security interest. In addition, we have borrowed $75.0 million from the Mississippi Development Authority. We will need to raise additional capital to service our debt. Our business plan also contemplates that we will need to raise additional funds to build our planned standard commercial production facilities and subsequent facilities, continue the development of our technology and products and commercialize any products resulting from our research and development efforts. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our leverage could have significant adverse consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest on, and principal of, our debt, which will reduce the amounts available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts and other general corporate purposes; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring us to seek to raise additional debt to service, refinance or repay our existing debt; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt. We may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the amounts due under our existing debt. In addition, a failure to comply with the covenants under our existing debt instruments could result in an event of default under those instruments. In the event of an acceleration of amounts due under our debt instruments as a result of an event of default, we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to repay our indebtedness or to make any accelerated payments, and the lenders could seek to enforce security interests in the collateral securing such indebtedness. Because of the covenants under our existing debt instruments and the pledge of our existing assets as collateral, we have a limited ability to obtain additional debt financing. We may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for the registration of our products as transportation fuels or as cellulosic biofuel under applicable regulatory requirements. The denial or delay of any of such approvals could delay our commercialization efforts and adversely impact our potential customer relationships, business and results of operations. We seek to commence commercial sales of cellulosic gasoline and diesel from our initial-scale commercial production facility in the second half of 2012. Our cellulosic gasoline and diesel will be subject to government regulation in our target markets. The EPA administers the CAA, which regulates the commercial registration, distribution and use of fuel products or fuel additives. Before an entity can introduce a fuel or fuel additive into commerce, it must register that fuel or fuel additive with the EPA. Our gasoline and diesel have not been registered with the EPA as a fuel. In addition, in order for our gasoline or diesel to qualify as a renewable fuel, advanced biofuel or cellulosic biofuel for the purpose of satisfying the mandates of the RFS2, upon petition the EPA will conduct its own assessment of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the production and use of our gasoline or diesel and must verify that our feedstocks qualify as renewable cellulosic biomass. The EPA may not complete this assessment in a timely manner, which could delay or increase the costs of the commercialization of our products, or it may determine that our gasoline or diesel do not reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a sufficient amount to qualify as a renewable fuel, advanced biofuel or cellulosic biofuel under RFS2. The EPA could also decide that our feedstocks do not meet the definition of renewable biomass, and thus our products would be ineligible for RFS2 credits. A decision by the EPA that our products do not qualify as a renewable fuel, advanced biofuel or cellulosic biofuel for purposes of satisfying renewable fuel mandates would significantly reduce demand for our product, which would materially and adversely affect our business. Our offtake agreements for the sale and purchase of the cellulosic gasoline, diesel and fuel oil from our initial-scale commercial production facility under construction are subject to the satisfaction of certain technical, commercial and production requirements. If we fail to meet these requirements, our commercialization plan could be delayed or harmed. Currently, our offtake agreements for the sale and purchase of the cellulosic gasoline, diesel and fuel oil to be produced at our initial-scale commercial production facility under construction are subject to the satisfaction of certain technical, commercial and production requirements. These agreements do not affirmatively obligate our counterparties to purchase specific quantities of any products from us at this time, and these agreements contain important conditions that must be satisfied before any such purchases are made. These conditions include that we and our counterparties agree on product specifications for our cellulosic gasoline, diesel and fuel oil and that our products conform to those specifications. If we do not satisfy these contractual requirements and if we subsequently are unable to renegotiate those terms, our counterparties may terminate the agreements and our commercialization plan could be delayed or harmed if we need to find other counterparties. We face challenges in obtaining market acceptance of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel, and our business would be harmed if they are not accepted by prospective customers in the transportation fuels market. We intend to market our cellulosic gasoline and diesel to refiners, terminal and rack owners and end users. These potential customers frequently impose lengthy and complex product qualification procedures on new products, influenced by finished product specifications, processing considerations, regulatory issues and other factors. Potential customers may be reluctant to adopt new products due to a lack of familiarity with our cellulosic gasoline and diesel even though our products meet industry specifications. In addition, our cellulosic gasoline and diesel may need to satisfy product certification requirements of equipment manufacturers. For example, fleet owners may need to certify that the use of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel in their vehicles will not invalidate product warranties. If we are unable to convince prospective customers that our cellulosic gasoline and diesel are compatible with their existing processes or that the use of our products is otherwise to their benefit, our business will be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have limited experience in structuring arrangements with prospective customers for the purchase of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel, including price mechanisms that allow us to realize the benefit of any government incentives our cellulosic gasoline and diesel generate for ourselves or our potential customers, and we may not succeed in this essential aspect of our business. We have not yet completed the commercial development of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel, and we have limited experience structuring arrangements with potential customers that would allow us to benefit from new government incentives for renewable fuels. Our pricing formula with these potential customers must be designed to allow us to realize the benefits of cellulosic biofuel RIN credits, cellulosic biofuel tax credits and other government incentives we generate for ourselves or our customers. Markets that value cellulosic biofuel RIN credits and other government incentives may take a long period of time to develop or may not materialize at all. These events could delay our ability to capitalize on the opportunities presented to us by our technology, including preventing us from achieving commercialization of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel. Further, we plan to sell large amounts of our products to specific potential customers, and this will require that we effectively negotiate contracts for these relationships. The companies with which we expect to have customer arrangements generally are much larger and have substantially greater bargaining power than us. As a result, we may be ineffective in negotiating the terms of our relationships with these companies, which could adversely affect our future results of operations. The price of RIN credits may reduce demand for our products. RFS2 allows additional RIN credits to be granted to obligated parties who blend into their fuel more than the required percentage of renewable fuels in a given year. These credits may be traded to other parties or may be used in subsequent years to satisfy RFS2 requirements. The trading prices of renewable fuel and advanced biofuel RIN credits are influenced by, among other factors, the transportation costs associated with renewable fuels, the mandated level of renewable fuel use for a specific year, the possibility of waivers of renewable fuel mandates and the expected supply of renewable fuel products. Any reduction in the cost of RIN credits could reduce the demand for our cellulosic gasoline and diesel. Our future success may depend on our ability to produce our cellulosic gasoline and diesel without government incentives on a cost-competitive basis with petroleum-based fuels. If current or anticipated government incentives are reduced significantly or eliminated and petroleum-based fuel prices are lower or comparable to the cost of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel, demand for our products may decline, which could adversely affect our future results of operations. Changes in government regulations, including mandates, tax credits, subsidies and other incentives, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. The market for renewable fuels is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies. Changes to existing, or adoption of new foreign, federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives that impact the production, distribution or sale of renewable fuels may harm our business. For example, RFS2 currently calls for 15.2 billion gallons of liquid transportation fuels sold in 2012 to come from renewable fuels, a mandate that grows to 36 billion gallons by 2022. Of this amount, 8.65 million gallons of renewable fuel used in 2012 and 16 billion gallons of renewable fuels used annually by 2022 must be cellulosic biofuel. In the United States and in a number of other countries, regulations and policies like RFS2 have been modified or discontinued in the past and may be modified or discontinued again in the future. In the United States, the EPA Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Agriculture, may waive certain renewable fuels standards, on his or her own motion or in response to a petition requesting such waiver, to avert economic harm or in response to inadequate supply. The EPA Administrator is also required to reduce the mandate for cellulosic biofuel use if projected supply for a given year falls below a minimum threshold for that year. Any reduction in, or waiver of, mandated requirements for fuel alternatives and additives to gasoline may cause demand for renewable biofuels to decline and deter investment in the research and development of renewable fuels. The EPA Administrator could also revise qualification standards for renewable fuels in ways that increase our expenses by requiring different feedstocks, impose extensive tracking and sourcing requirements, or prevent our process from qualifying as a renewable fuel under RFS2. In addition, the U.S. Congress has passed legislation that extends tax credits for, among other things, the production of certain renewable fuel products as contemplated by our current process design. However, we cannot assure you that this or any other favorable legislation will remain in place. Any reduction in or phasing out or elimination of existing tax credits, subsidies and other incentives in the United States and foreign markets for renewable fuels, or any inability of us or our prospective customers to access such credits, subsidies and other incentives, may adversely affect demand for, and increase the overall cost of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, market uncertainty regarding future policies may also affect our ability to develop new renewable products and to sell products to our potential customers. Any inability to address these requirements and any regulatory or policy changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to realize expected economies of scale, reduce our feedstock costs, increase our overall yields and optimize the composition of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel, which could limit our ability to sell our products at competitive prices and materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. We may be unable to realize expected economies of scale, reduce our feedstock costs, increase our overall yields and optimize the composition of our renewable crude oil in order to produce our cellulosic gasoline and diesel on a cost-competitive basis with existing petroleum-based fuel products without government incentives. In particular, we may be unsuccessful in incorporating lower grade woody biomass, such as logging residues, branches and bark, in our process to reduce our feedstock costs or maintain our yields. In addition, our research and development efforts may fail to increase the yield of our BFCC process such that we may be unable to produce cellulosic gasoline and diesel at the costs or in the quantities that we anticipate. Our failure to achieve these efficiencies or improvements over time could limit our ability to sell our products at competitive prices and materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. The production of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel will require significant amounts of feedstock, and we may be unable to acquire sufficient amounts of feedstock to produce the amount of our products that we commit to sell to potential customers, or we may experience difficulties or incur costs obtaining such feedstock. The successful commercialization of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel will require us to acquire and process large amounts of feedstock, which primarily will be Southern Yellow Pine. We may experience difficulties in obtaining access to feedstock and transporting feedstock to our commercial production facilities. Our access to feedstock may be adversely affected by weather or actions by landowners, sellers or competing buyers of feedstock. In addition, fires or other natural disasters in the vicinity of our commercial production facilities could affect the availability of feedstock. We may be unable to secure access to feedstock or to secure the transportation of feedstock to our planned commercial production facilities on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to secure cost-effective access to feedstock, our ability to produce our cellulosic gasoline and diesel would be adversely affected. The price of woody biomass and other renewable feedstock could increase or become volatile, or their availability could be reduced, which would increase the production costs of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel. The price of woody biomass and other renewable feedstock may increase or become volatile due to changes in demand, such as the increased use of such feedstock in the generation of renewable electricity. Such changes would result in higher feedstock prices and/or a significant decrease in the volume of woody biomass and other renewable feedstock available for the production of the cellulosic gasoline and diesel we plan to sell, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may be unable to locate facilities near low-cost, abundant and sustainable sources of biomass and adequate infrastructure, which may affect our ability to produce cost-effective cellulosic gasoline and diesel. Our business model and the successful commercialization of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel will depend on our ability to locate commercial production facilities near low-cost, abundant and sustainable sources of renewable biomass and in proximity to adequate infrastructure. Our ability to place facilities in locations where we can economically produce our cellulosic gasoline and diesel from nearby feedstock and transport those fuels to potential customers will be subject to the availability and cost of land, the availability of adequate infrastructure and skilled labor resources in such areas, and to legal and regulatory risks related to land use, permitting and environmental regulations. If we are unable to locate facilities at sites that allow economical production and transport of our products, our ability to produce cellulosic gasoline and diesel cost-effectively could be adversely affected. A disruption in our supply chain for components of our proprietary catalyst system could materially disrupt or impair our ability to produce cellulosic gasoline and diesel. We rely on third parties to supply the components of our proprietary catalyst system and, although we currently prepare finished catalyst ourselves, we may require third parties to provide commercial supply of finished catalyst. Our operations could be materially disrupted if we lose any of these suppliers or if any supplier experiences a significant interruption in its manufacturing and is unable provide an adequate supply of these components to meet our demand. Any such disruptions or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business will be subject to fluctuations in commodity prices. We believe that some of the present and projected demand for renewable fuels results from relatively recent increases in the cost of petroleum. We intend to market our cellulosic gasoline and diesel as alternatives to corresponding petroleum-based fuels. If the price of petroleum-based fuels declines, we may be unable to produce cellulosic gasoline and diesel that are cost-effective alternatives to their petroleum-based counterparts. Declining oil prices, or the perception of a future decline in oil prices, would adversely affect the prices we can obtain from our potential customers or prevent us from entering into agreements with potential customers for our products. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Petroleum prices have been extremely volatile. Lower petroleum prices over extended periods of time may change the perceptions in government and the private sector that cheaper, more readily available energy alternatives should be developed and produced. If petroleum prices were to decline from present levels and remain at lower levels for extended periods of time, the demand for cellulosic and other renewable fuels could be reduced, and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, our commercial production facilities may use significant amounts of natural gas to operate. Accordingly, our business depends on natural gas supplied by third parties. An increase in the price of natural gas could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, expansion of our business as we continue to make efforts to develop and bring our products to market. Our growth and operations have placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. We may incur significant costs complying with environmental laws and regulations, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. The production of renewable fuels involves the emission of various airborne pollutants. As a result, we are subject to several different environmental laws, regulations and permitting requirements administered by the EPA and the states where our facilities are and may be located, including CAA requirements. These laws, regulations and permitting requirements may restrict our emissions, affect our ability to make changes to our operations, and otherwise impose limitations on or require controls on our operations. In addition to costs that we expect to incur to achieve and maintain compliance with these laws, new or more stringent CAA standards or other environmental requirements in the future also may limit our operating flexibility or require the installation of new controls at our facilities. We also use, transport and produce hazardous chemicals and materials in our business and are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. Our safety procedures for handling, transporting and disposing of these materials and waste products may be incapable of eliminating the risk of accidental injury or contamination from the use, storage, transporting, handling or disposal of hazardous materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our insurance coverage. We may not be insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and the failure to comply with past, present or future laws could result in the imposition of fines, third party property damage, product liability and personal injury claims, investigation and remediation costs, the suspension of production or a cessation of operations, and our liability may exceed our total assets. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to comparative fault. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could impair our research, development or production efforts and harm our business. Later-enacted federal and state governmental requirements may substantially increase our costs or delay or prevent the construction and operation of our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Consequently, considerable resources may be required to comply with future environmental regulations. Climate change legislation, regulatory initiatives and litigation could result in increased operating costs. In recent years, the U.S. Congress has been considering legislation to restrict or regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, or GHGs, such as carbon dioxide and methane, that are understood to contribute to global warming. In addition, almost half of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have begun to address GHG emissions. Independent of Congress, the EPA has adopted regulations controlling GHG emissions under its existing CAA authority. For example, on December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climatic changes. In 2009, the EPA adopted rules regarding regulation of GHG emissions from motor vehicles. In addition, in October 2009, the EPA promulgated a final rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In June 2010, the EPA also issued a final rule, known as the “Tailoring Rule,” that makes certain large stationary sources and modification projects subject to permitting requirements for greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements At this time, the projected GHG emissions from our facilities, including our initial-scale commercial production facility under construction in Columbus, Mississippi, would fall below the applicable thresholds which would require GHG permitting or reporting requirements. Although it is not possible at this time to accurately estimate how potential future laws or regulations addressing GHG emissions would impact our business, any future federal laws or implementing regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs. The potential increase in the costs of our operations resulting from any legislation or regulation to restrict emissions of GHGs could include new or increased costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay any taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program. We cannot predict with any certainty at this time how these possibilities may affect our operations. Loss of key personnel, including key management personnel and key technical personnel, or failure to attract and retain additional personnel could delay our product development programs and harm our research and development efforts and our ability to meet our business objectives. Our business requires a management team and employee workforce that is knowledgeable in the technological and commercial areas in which we operate. The loss of any key member of our management or key technical and operational employees, or the failure to attract or retain such employees could prevent us from developing and commercializing our products and executing our business strategy. We may be unable to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among catalyst, refining, alternative and renewable fuel businesses, or due to the unavailability of personnel with the qualifications or experience necessary for our business. In particular, our process development program depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical and operational personnel with particular experience and backgrounds. Competition for such personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to hire individuals with the necessary experience and skills on acceptable terms. In addition, we expect that the execution of our strategy of constructing multiple commercial production facilities to bring our products to market will require the expertise of individuals experienced and skilled in managing complex, first-of-kind capital development projects. All of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either the employee or we may terminate their employment at any time. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience staffing constraints that will adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products, meet the demands of our potential customers in a timely fashion or to support our internal research and development programs, which could impair our ability to meet our business objectives and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Weather, natural disasters and accidents may significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our corporate headquarters, pilot plant and demonstration unit are located outside of Houston, Texas, which is an area exposed to and affected by hurricanes. Major hurricanes may cause significant disruption in our operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region and the supply of feedstock, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. We do not have a detailed disaster recovery plan. In addition, we may not carry sufficient business insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. We are not insured against environmental pollution resulting from environmental accidents that occur on a sudden and accidental basis, some of which may result in toxic tort claims. Any losses or damages could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and success as an overall business. We may be subject to product liability claims and other claims of our potential customers. The design, development, production and sale of our cellulosic gasoline and diesel involve an inherent risk of product liability claims and the associated adverse publicity. We may be named in product liability suits relating to our cellulosic gasoline and diesel or the finished gasoline and diesel fuel containing our products, even for defects resulting from errors of our potential customers. These claims could be brought by various parties, including potential customers who are purchasing our products directly from us or other users who purchase our products from our customers. In addition, our potential customers may bring suits against us alleging damages for the failure of our products to meet specifications or other requirements. Any such suits, even if unsuccessful, could be costly and disrupt the attention of our management and damage our negotiations with other potential customers. Although we seek to limit our product liability in contracts with our potential customers, including indemnification from customers for such product liability claims, such limits may not be enforceable or may be subject to exceptions. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover all potential liability claims. Insurance coverage is expensive and may be difficult to obtain. Also, insurance coverage may not be available in the future on acceptable terms and may not be sufficient to cover potential claims. We cannot assure you that our potential customers will have adequate insurance coverage to cover against potential claims. If we experience a large insured loss, it might exceed our coverage limits, or our insurance carrier may decline to further cover us or may raise our insurance rates to unacceptable levels, any of which could impair our financial position. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our financial condition and operating results may vary significantly from period to period due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following factors, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report: • our ability to achieve or maintain profitability; • the feasibility of producing our cellulosic gasoline and diesel on a commercial scale; • our ability to manage our growth; • fluctuations in the price of and demand for petroleum-based products; • the availability of cost-effective renewable feedstock sources; • the existence of government programs and incentives or regulation; • potential issues related to our ability to report accurately our financial results in a timely manner; • our dependence on, and the need to attract and retain, key management and other personnel; • our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; • potential advantages that our competitors and potential competitors may have in securing funding or developing projects; • our ability to obtain additional capital that may be necessary to expand our business; • business interruptions such as hurricanes, natural disasters and accidents; • our ability to comply with laws and regulations; • our ability to properly handle and dispose of hazardous materials used in our business; and • our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Due to the various factors mentioned above, and other factors described in this Annual Report, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. We have not performed a detailed analysis to determine whether an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code has occurred after each of our previous issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt. If we have undergone an ownership change as a result of such issuances or as a result of our initial public offering, our ability to utilize NOLs could be limited by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might be unable to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, will require us and our independent registered public accounting firm to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting beginning with our Annual Report for the year ending December 31, 2012. The process of implementing our internal controls and complying with Section 404 will be expensive and time consuming, and will require significant attention of management. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements to a variety of administrative sanctions, including Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, action, ineligibility for short form resale registration, the suspension or delisting of our Class A common stock from The Nasdaq Global Select Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our Class A common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business. Integrating a new enterprise resource planning system could interfere with our business or operations and could adversely impact our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are in the process of integrating a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. This project requires significant investment of capital and human resources, the re-engineering of many processes of our business, and the attention of many employees who would otherwise be focused on other aspects of our business. Any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and integration of the new ERP system could result in potentially much higher costs than we had anticipated and could adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize products, provide services, fulfill contractual obligations, file reports with the SEC in a timely manner and/or otherwise operate our business, or otherwise impact our controls environment. Any of these consequences could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. International expansion is one of our growth strategies, and international operations will expose us to additional risks that we do not face in the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We expect to focus our initial business and operations in the United States; however, international expansion is one of our growth strategies. If and when we expand internationally, our operations will be subject to a variety of risks that we do not face in the United States including: • building and managing experienced foreign workforces and overseeing and ensuring the performance of foreign subcontractors; • increased travel, infrastructure and legal and compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • additional withholding taxes or other taxes on our foreign income, and tariffs or other restrictions on foreign trade or investment; • imposition of, or unexpected adverse changes in, foreign laws or regulatory requirements, many of which differ from those in the United States; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; • longer payment cycles for sales in some foreign countries and potential difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in repatriating overseas earnings; • general economic conditions in the countries in which we operate; and • political unrest, war, incidents of terrorism or responses to such events. Our overall success in international markets will depend, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social and political conditions. We may not be successful in developing and implementing policies and strategies that will be effective in managing these risks in each country where we do business. Our failure to manage these risks successfully could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales and increase our costs, thus adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property There are many companies developing technology in this area of business, and other parties may have intellectual property rights which could limit our ability operate freely. Our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of other parties and without breaching any agreements we enter. We are aware of other parties applying various technologies, including FCC, to make cellulosic gasoline and diesel from biomass. We cannot determine with certainty whether patents of other parties may materially affect our ability to conduct our business. Because patent applications can take several years to issue, there may currently be pending applications, unknown to us, that may result in issued patents that cover our technologies or product candidates. We are aware of a significant number of patents and patent applications relating to aspects of our technologies filed by, and issued to, third parties. The existence of third-party patent applications and patents could significantly reduce the scope of coverage of any patents granted to us and limit our ability to obtain meaningful patent protection. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If a third party asserts that we infringe upon its patents or other proprietary rights, we may need to obtain a license, if a license is available, or redesign our technology. We could otherwise face a number of other issues that could seriously harm our competitive position, including: • infringement and other intellectual property claims, which could be costly and time consuming to litigate, whether or not the claims have merit, and which could delay getting our products to market and divert management attention from our business; • substantial damages for past infringement, which we may have to pay if a court determines that our products or technologies infringe upon a competitor’s patent or other proprietary rights; • a court prohibition from selling or licensing our technologies or future products unless the holder licenses the patent or other proprietary rights to us, which it would not be required to do; and • if a license is available from a third party, an obligation to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents or proprietary rights. Many of our employees were previously employed at specialty chemical, oil and forest products companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel and be enjoined from certain activities. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize our products, which could severely harm our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and demand on management resources. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, which may allow competitors to more easily exploit technology similar to ours. Part of our expected market advantage depends in part on our ability to maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property for our technologies and products and potential products in the United States and other countries. We have adopted a strategy of seeking patent protection in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to certain of the technologies used in or relating to our products and processes. Our intellectual property claims cover different aspects of our technology, and many of them have been or will be filed both in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. These patent applications and granted patents are directed to aspects of our technology and/or to our methods and products that support our business. However, the issuance and enforcement of patents involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the patent applications that we file will result in patents being issued, or that our patent and any patents that may be issued to us will cover our technology or the methods or products that support our business, or afford protection against competitors with similar technology. Moreover, the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity, scope or enforceability, and competitors might successfully challenge the validity, scope or enforceability of any issued patents should we try to enforce them. In addition, patent applications filed in foreign countries are subject to laws, rules and procedures that differ from those of the United States, and thus we cannot be certain that foreign patent applications will be granted even if U.S. patents are issued. Our ability to compete may decline if we are required to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights through costly litigation or administrative proceedings. Unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Identifying unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, because we may be unable to monitor the processes and materials employed by other parties, and the end products of our proprietary technology may be commodities from which it would be difficult to ascertain the methods or materials used in their manufacture. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where enforcement of intellectual property rights is more difficult than in the United States. Proceedings to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs, even if the eventual outcome were favorable to us, and would divert both funds and other of our resources from our business objectives. If the outcome of any such proceedings is unfavorable and competitors are able to use our technology without payment to us, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. Furthermore, the nature of any protection against foreign competition that may be afforded by any patents we may have is often difficult to predict and varies significantly from country to country. Moreover, others may independently develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies, and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, which could cause harm to our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosures of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We rely in part on trade secret protection to protect our confidential and proprietary information and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We have taken measures to protect our trade secrets and proprietary information, but these measures may not be effective. We require new employees and consultants to execute confidentiality agreements upon the 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements commencement of an employment or consulting arrangement with us. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. Nevertheless, our proprietary information may be disclosed, third parties could reverse engineer our catalyst systems and others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Competitors and potential competitors who have greater resources and experience than we do may develop products and technologies that compete with ours or may use their greater resources to gain market share at our expense. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on our ability to develop proprietary technologies that produce interchangeable products in large volumes and at costs below the prevailing market prices for our products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater production, financial, research and development, personnel and marketing resources than we do. In addition, certain of our competitors may also benefit from local government programs and incentives that are not available to us. As a result, our competitors may be able to develop competing and/or superior technologies and processes, and compete more aggressively and sustain that competition over a longer period of time than we could. Our technologies and products may be rendered uneconomical or otherwise obsolete by technological advances or entirely different approaches developed by one or more of our competitors. As more companies develop new intellectual property in our markets, the possibility of a competitor acquiring patent or other rights that may limit our products or potential products increases, which could lead to litigation. In addition, various governments have recently announced a number of spending programs focused on the development of clean technology, including alternatives to petroleum-based fuels and the reduction of carbon emissions. Such spending programs could lead to increased funding for our competitors or the rapid increase in the number of competitors within those markets. Our limited resources relative to many of our competitors may cause us to fail to anticipate or respond adequately to new developments and other competitive pressures. This failure could reduce our competitiveness and market share, adversely affect our results of operations and financial position, and prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our share price may be volatile and you may be unable to sell your shares at a price acceptable to you. The market price of shares of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • the position of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rate; • announcements of technological innovations by us, our collaborators or our competitors; • announcements by us, our customers or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • the entry into, modification or termination of customer contracts; • additions or losses of customers; • additions or departures of key management, scientific or other personnel; • competition from existing technologies and products or new technologies and products that may emerge; • issuance of new or updated research reports by securities or industry analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • changes in existing laws, regulations and policies applicable to our business and products, including RFS2, and the adoption or failure to adopt carbon emissions regulation; • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • sales of our common stock by us, our insiders or our other stockholders; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • general market conditions in our industry; and • general economic and market conditions, including the recent financial crisis. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of shares of our Class A common stock. If the market price of shares of our Class A common decreases, you may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could harm our business. Holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share, and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to 10 votes per share. The lower voting power of our Class A common stock may negatively affect the attractiveness of our Class A common stock to investors and, as a result, its market value. We have two classes of common stock: Class A common stock, which is the stock we sold in our initial public offering and which is entitled to one vote per share, and Class B common stock, which is entitled to 10 votes per share. The difference in the voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company otherwise favored by stockholders otherwise holding a majority of our common stock and could diminish the market value of our Class A common stock because of the superior voting rights of our Class B common stock and the power those rights confer. For the foreseeable future, Khosla Ventures will be able to control the selection of all members of our Board of Directors, as well as virtually every other matter that requires stockholder approval, which will severely limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters. Except in certain limited circumstances required by applicable law, holders of Class A common stock and Class B common stock vote together as a single class on all matters to be voted on by our stockholders. Khosla Ventures owns Class A common stock and Class B common stock that together represent a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, holders of shares of Class B common stock may generally transfer those shares to affiliated entities, without having the shares automatically convert into shares of Class A common stock. Therefore, Khosla Ventures will, for the foreseeable future, be able to control the outcome of the voting on virtually all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions such as an acquisition of our company, even if they come to own, in the aggregate, as little as 10% of the economic interest of the outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Moreover, Khosla Ventures may take actions in their own interests that you or our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. As an example of how Khosla Ventures’ interests may differ from other stockholders, Khosla Ventures has advised us as follows: Khosla Ventures believes that promoting energy independence and a sustainable environment are the most important issues facing society today. Khosla Ventures’ goal is to invest in products and services that will better the lives of as many people as possible by fundamentally altering the way the world produces and consumes energy. In pursuing that goal, Khosla Ventures makes investments and decisions that may give priority to long-term financial returns over short-term financial returns. Khosla Ventures believes that considering environmental, social and other consequences are important in maximizing stockholder value over the long term and that high risk projects may generate the highest long term returns. Further, the objectives and goals of Khosla Ventures relating to its investments may change over time. As a result of the foregoing, you should be aware that Khosla Ventures may vote its shares of common stock in a way our other stockholders do not view as beneficial. Investors in our Class A common stock do not have the same protections generally available to stockholders of other Nasdaq-listed companies because we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the Nasdaq Listing Rules. Khosla Ventures controls a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of Nasdaq Listing Rule 5615(c). As a controlled company, we qualify for, and our Board of Directors may and intends to rely upon, exemptions from several corporate governance requirements, including requirements that: • a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors; 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • compensation of officers be determined or recommended to the Board of Directors by a majority of the Board’s independent directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and • director nominees be selected or recommended to the Board of Directors by a majority of the Board’s independent directors or by a nominating committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. Additionally, Khosla Ventures will be able to have its nominees represented on our compensation committee and our corporate governance and nominating committee. Accordingly, investors in our Class A common stock will not be afforded the same protections generally as stockholders of other Nasdaq-listed companies if Khosla Ventures’ designees to our Board of Directors come to represent a majority of our board and determine to rely upon such exemptions. Please read “— For the foreseeable future, Khosla Ventures will be able to control the selection of all members of our Board of Directors, as well as virtually every other matter that requires stockholder approval, which will severely limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters” for more information on the risks we face in connection with our initial investors’ ability to control the outcome of virtually all stockholder votes. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares of common stock may be sold into the market at any time. This could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that the holders of a large number of shares of common stock intend to sell shares, could reduce the market price of our Class A common stock. As of December 31, 2011, entities affiliated with Khosla Ventures, entities affiliated with Artis Capital Management, L.P., entities affiliated with Alberta Investment Management Corporation and BIOeCON B.V. beneficially own, collectively, approximately 92% of our outstanding common stock. If one or more of them were to sell a substantial portion of the shares they hold, it could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2011, holders of an aggregate of approximately 83 million shares of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, there were 13.6 million shares subject to outstanding options and 0.9 million restricted shares granted under our amended and restated 2007 Stock Option/Stock Issuance Plan, 0.2 million shares subject to outstanding options and 0.2 million restricted shares granted under our 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and 0.7 million shares subject to outstanding warrants that are eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by any applicable vesting requirements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act of 1933. These shares can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance and once vested. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and accordingly, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors must rely on sales of their Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not invest our Class A common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • dual class of common stock with each share of Class B common stock entitled to 10 votes while each share of Class A common stock is entitled only to one vote; 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • authorizing the Board of Directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock; • authorizing the Board of Directors to amend our bylaws and to fill board vacancies until the next annual meeting of the stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • not authorizing our stockholders to call a special stockholder meeting; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 