ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business In addition to the other information set forth in this report, you should carefully consider the risks described below which could materially affect our business, financial condition, or future results. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks and uncertainties, could harm our business and financial condition. We operate in highly competitive markets. Our industry is highly competitive. We compete with multinational corporations with significant financial resources, including Coca-Cola and PepsiCo and their related affiliated systems. These competitors can use their resources and scale to rapidly respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products, reducing prices or increasing promotional activities. We also compete against a variety of smaller, regional and private label manufacturers. Smaller companies may be more innovative, better able to bring new products to market and better able to quickly exploit and serve niche markets. Our inability to compete effectively could result in a decline in our sales. As a result, we may have to reduce our prices or increase our spending on marketing, advertising and product innovation. Any of these could negatively affect our business and financial performance. We may not effectively respond to changing consumer preferences, trends, health concerns and other factors. Consumers’ preferences can change due to a variety of factors, including aging of the population, social trends, negative publicity, economic downturn or other factors. For example, consumers are increasingly concerned about health and wellness, and demand for regular CSDs has decreased as consumers have shifted towards low or no calorie soft drinks and, increasingly, to NCBs, such as water, ready-to-drink teas and sports drinks. If we do not effectively anticipate these trends and changing consumer preferences, then quickly develop new products in 12 Table of Contents response, our sales could suffer. Developing and launching new products can be risky and expensive. We may not be successful in responding to changing markets and consumer preferences, and some of our competitors may be better able to respond to these changes, either of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. We depend on a small number of large retailers for a significant portion of our sales. Food and beverage retailers in the United States have been consolidating, resulting in large, sophisticated retailers with increased buying power. They are in a better position to resist our price increases and demand lower prices. They also have leverage to require us to provide larger, more tailored promotional and product delivery programs. If we and our bottlers and distributors do not successfully provide appropriate marketing, product, packaging, pricing and service to these retailers, our product availability, sales and margins could suffer. Certain retailers make up a significant percentage of our products’ retail volume, including volume sold by our bottlers and distributors. For example, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., the largest retailer of our products, represented approximately 11% of our net sales in 2008. Some retailers also offer their own private label products that compete with some of our brands. The loss of sales of any of our products in a major retailer could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We depend on third party bottling and distribution companies for a substantial portion of our business. We generate a substantial portion of our net sales from sales of beverage concentrates to third party bottling companies. During 2008, approximately two-thirds of our beverage concentrates volume was sold to bottlers that we do not own. Some of these bottlers are partly owned by our competitors, and much of their business comes from selling our competitors’ products. In addition, some of the products we manufacture are distributed by third parties. As independent companies, these bottlers and distributors make their own business decisions. They may have the right to determine whether, and to what extent, they produce and distribute our products, our competitors’ products and their own products. They may devote more resources to other products or take other actions detrimental to our brands. In most cases, they are able to terminate their bottling and distribution arrangements with us without cause. We may need to increase support for our brands in their territories and may not be able to pass on price increases to them. Their financial condition could also be adversely affected by conditions beyond our control and our business could suffer. Deteriorating economic conditions could negatively impact the financial viability of third party bottlers. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Determinations in the future that a significant impairment of the value of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets has occurred could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. As of December 31, 2008, we had $8.6 billion of total assets, of which approximately $5.7 billion were intangible assets. Intangible assets include goodwill, and other intangible assets in connection with brands, bottler agreements, distribution rights and customer relationships. We conduct impairment tests on goodwill and all indefinite lived intangible assets annually, as of December 31, or more frequently if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Our annual impairment analysis, performed as of December 31, 2008, resulted in pre-tax non-cash impairment charges of $1,039 million. For additional information about these intangible assets, see “Critical Accounting Estimates — Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets” in Item 7 and our audited consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The impairment tests require us to make an estimate of the fair value of intangible assets. Since a number of factors may influence determinations of fair value of intangible assets, we are unable to predict whether impairments of goodwill or other indefinite lived intangibles will occur in the future. Any such impairment would result in us recognizing a charge to our operating results, which may adversely affect our financial performance. 13 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of outstanding debt, which could adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations. As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $3,524 million. This significant amount of debt could have important consequences to us and our investors, including: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on this debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that may not be as highly leveraged with debt as we are; and • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase common stock. To the extent we become more leveraged or experience deteriorating economic conditions, the risks described above would increase. Additionally, it may become more difficult to satisfy debt service and other obligations, the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures, other corporate purposes and to grow our business could be reduced and the future credit ratings of our debt could be downgraded, which could increase future debt costs. Our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to repay at maturity all of the outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to refinance our debt. In addition, the credit agreement governing our debt contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to incur debt at subsidiaries that are not guarantors, incur liens, merge or sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, make investments, loans, advances, guarantees and acquisitions, enter into transactions with affiliates and enter into agreements restricting our ability to incur liens or the ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions. The agreement also requires us to comply with certain affirmative and financial covenants. Our financial results may be negatively impacted by the recent global financial events. The recent global financial events have resulted in the consolidation, failure or near failure of a number of institutions in the banking, insurance and investment banking industries and have substantially reduced the ability of companies to obtain financing. These events have also led to a substantial reduction in stock market valuations. These events could have a number of different effects on our business, including: • a reduction in consumer spending, which could result in a reduction in our sales volume; • a negative impact on the ability of our customers to timely pay their obligations to us, thus reducing our cash flow, or our vendors to timely supply materials; • an increase in counterparty risk; • an increased likelihood that one or more of our banking syndicates may be unable to honor its commitments under our revolving credit facility; and • restricted access to capital markets that may limit our ability to take advantage of business opportunities, such as acquisitions. Other events or conditions may arise directly or indirectly from the global financial events that could negatively impact our business. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these claims and proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. We may establish a reserve as appropriate based upon assessments and estimates in accordance with our accounting policies. 14 Table of Contents We base our assessments, estimates and disclosures on the information available to us at the time and rely on legal and management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from assessments and estimates. Actual settlements, judgments or resolutions of these claims or proceedings may negatively affect our business and financial performance. For more information, see Note 22 of the Notes to our Audited Consolidated Financials Statements. Benefits cost increases could reduce our profitability. Our profitability is substantially affected by the costs of pension, postretirement and employee medical costs and employee other benefits. In recent years, these costs have increased significantly due to factors such as increases in health care costs, declines in investment returns on pension assets and changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities. Although we actively seek to control increases in costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in costs could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance. Costs for our raw materials may increase substantially. The principal raw materials we use in our business are aluminum cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles and caps, paperboard packaging, sweeteners, juice, fruit, water and other ingredients. Additionally, conversion of raw materials into our products for sale also uses electricity and natural gas. The cost of the raw materials can fluctuate substantially. We are significantly impacted by increases in fuel costs due to the large truck fleet we operate in our distribution businesses. Under many of our supply arrangements, the price we pay for raw materials fluctuates along with certain changes in underlying commodities costs, such as aluminum in the case of cans, natural gas in the case of glass bottles, resin in the case of PET bottles and caps, corn in the case of sweeteners and pulp in the case of paperboard packaging. Continued price increases could exert pressure on our costs and we may not be able to pass along any such increases to our customers or consumers, which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Certain raw materials we use are available from a limited number of suppliers and shortages could occur. Some raw materials we use, such as aluminum cans and ends, glass bottles, PET bottles, sweeteners and other ingredients, are sourced from industries characterized by a limited supply base. If our suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our requirements, we could suffer shortages or substantial cost increases. Changing suppliers can require long lead times. The failure of our suppliers to meet our needs could occur for many reasons, including fires, natural disasters, weather, manufacturing problems, disease, crop failure, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation, political instability and terrorism. A failure of supply could also occur due to suppliers’ financial difficulties, including bankruptcy. Some of these risks may be more acute where the supplier or its plant is located in riskier or less-developed countries or regions. Any significant interruption to supply or cost increase could substantially harm our business and financial performance. Substantial disruption to production at our manufacturing and distribution facilities could occur. A disruption in production at our beverage concentrates manufacturing facility, which manufactures almost all of our concentrates, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, a disruption could occur at any of our other facilities or those of our suppliers, bottlers or distributors. The disruption could occur for many reasons, including fire, natural disasters, weather, manufacturing problems, disease, strikes, transportation interruption, government regulation or terrorism. Alternative facilities with sufficient capacity or capabilities may not be available, may cost substantially more or may take a significant time to start production, each of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Our facilities and operations may require substantial investment and upgrading. We have an ongoing program of investment and upgrading in our manufacturing, distribution and other facilities. We expect to incur substantial costs to upgrade or keep up-to-date various facilities and equipment or 15 Table of Contents restructure our operations, including closing existing facilities or opening new ones. If our investment and restructuring costs are higher than anticipated or our business does not develop as anticipated to appropriately utilize new or upgraded facilities, our costs and financial performance could be negatively affected. We may not be able to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or we could experience strikes. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 5,000 of our employees, many of whom are at our key manufacturing locations, were covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements typically expire every three to four years at various dates. We may not be able to renew our collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or at all. This could result in strikes or work stoppages, which could impair our ability to manufacture and distribute our products and result in a substantial loss of sales. The terms of existing or renewed agreements could also significantly increase our costs or negatively affect our ability to increase operational efficiency. Our products may not meet health and safety standards or could become contaminated. We have adopted various quality, environmental, health and safety standards. However, our products may still not meet these standards or could otherwise become contaminated. A failure to meet these standards or contamination could occur in our operations or those of our bottlers, distributors or suppliers. This could result in expensive production interruptions, recalls and liability claims. Moreover, negative publicity could be generated from false, unfounded or nominal liability claims or limited recalls. Any of these failures or occurrences could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Our intellectual property rights could be infringed or we could infringe the intellectual property rights of others and adverse events regarding licensed intellectual property, including termination of distribution rights, could harm our business. We possess intellectual property that is important to our business. This intellectual property includes ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets. See “Intellectual Property and Trademarks” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. We and third parties, including competitors, could come into conflict over intellectual property rights. Litigation could disrupt our business, divert management attention and cost a substantial amount to protect our rights or defend ourselves against claims. We cannot be certain that the steps we take to protect our rights will be sufficient or that others will not infringe or misappropriate our rights. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our brands, products and business could be harmed. We also license various trademarks from third parties and license our trademarks to third parties. In some countries, other companies own a particular trademark which we own in the United States, Canada or Mexico. For example, the Dr Pepper trademark and formula is owned by Coca-Cola in certain other countries. Adverse events affecting those third parties or their products could affect our use of the trademark and negatively impact our brands. In some cases, we license products from third parties which we distribute. The licensor may be able to terminate the license arrangement upon an agreed period of notice, in some cases without payment to us of any termination fee. The termination of any material license arrangement could adversely affect our business and financial performance. For example, in letters dated October 10, 2008, and December 11, 2008, we received formal notification from Hansen Natural Corporation, terminating our agreements to distribute Monster Energy as well as other Hansen’s beverage brands in certain markets in the United States and Mexico effective November 10, 2008, and January 26, 2009, respectively. We may not comply with applicable government laws and regulations and they could change. We are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations in the United States, Canada, Mexico and other countries in which we do business. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our business including the manufacture, safety, labeling, transportation, advertising and sale of our products. See “Regulatory Matters” in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding many of these laws and regulations. Violations of these laws or regulations could damage our reputation and/or result in regulatory actions 16 Table of Contents with substantial penalties. In addition, any significant change in such laws or regulations or their interpretation, or the introduction of higher standards or more stringent laws or regulations could result in increased compliance costs or capital expenditures. For example, changes in recycling and bottle deposit laws or special taxes on soft drinks or ingredients could increase our costs. Regulatory focus on the health, safety and marketing of food products is increasing. Certain state warning and labeling laws, such as California’s “Prop 65,” which requires warnings on any product with substances that the state lists as potentially causing cancer or birth defects, could become applicable to our products. Some local and regional governments and school boards have enacted, or have proposed to enact, regulations restricting the sale of certain types of soft drinks in schools. Any violations or changes of regulations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, or disrupt the production or distribution of our products, and negatively affect our business and financial performance. We may not realize benefits of acquisitions. We have recently acquired various bottling and distribution businesses and are integrating their operations into our business. We may pursue further acquisitions of independent bottlers, distributors and distribution rights to complement our existing capabilities and further expand the distribution of our brands. We may also pursue acquisition of brands and products to expand our brand portfolio. The failure to successfully identify, make and integrate acquisitions may impede the growth of our business. The timing or success of any acquisition and integration is uncertain, requires significant expenses, and diverts financial and managerial resources away from our existing businesses. We also may not be able to raise the substantial capital or debt required for acquisitions and integrations on satisfactory terms, if at all. In addition, even after an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquired business or brand or realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition, all of which could have a negative effect on our business and financial performance. We could lose key personnel or may be unable to recruit qualified personnel. Our performance significantly depends upon the continued contributions of our executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group, and our ability to retain and motivate them. Our officers and key personnel have many years of experience with us and in our industry and it may be difficult to replace them. If we lose key personnel or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, our operations and ability to manage our business may be adversely affected. We do not have “key person” life insurance for any of our executive officers or key employees. We depend on key information systems and third party service providers. We depend on key information systems to accurately and efficiently transact our business, provide information to management and prepare financial reports. We rely on third party providers for a number of key information systems and business processing services, including hosting our primary data center and processing various accounting, order entry and other transactional services. These systems and services are vulnerable to interruptions or other failures resulting from, among other things, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, software, equipment or telecommunications failures, processing errors, computer viruses, hackers, other security issues or supplier defaults. Security, backup and disaster recovery measures may not be adequate or implemented properly to avoid such disruptions or failures. Any disruption or failure of these systems or services could cause substantial errors, processing inefficiencies, security breaches, inability to use the systems or process transactions, loss of customers or other business disruptions, all of which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. Weather and climate changes could adversely affect our business. Unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of raw materials, energy and fuel, and demand for our products. Unusually cool weather during the summer months may result in reduced demand for our products and have a negative effect on our business and financial performance. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 