Risk Factors We face a variety of significant and diverse risks, many of which are inherent in our business. Described below are certain risks that we currently believe could materially affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not now consider to be material or of which we are not now aware may become important factors that affect us in the future. The occurrence of any of the risks discussed below could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations or cash flow. Risks Related to our Business If our investment strategies perform poorly, clients could withdraw their funds and we could suffer a decline in assets under management and/or become subject to litigation which would reduce our earnings. The relative performance of our investment strategies is critical in retaining existing clients as well as attracting new clients. If our investment strategies underperform compared to their respective benchmarks or competing products, as our International Equity strategies have since 2009, our earnings could be further reduced because: — our existing clients may withdraw their funds from our investment strategies, which would cause the revenues that we generate from investment management fees to decline. In 2011 we experienced significant client outflows; — our Morningstar and Lipper ratings may decline, or continue to decline for our International Equity strategies, which may adversely affect our ability to attract new assets or retain existing assets, especially assets in the Artio Global Funds; — third-party financial intermediaries, advisors or consultants may rate our investment products poorly, which may lead our existing clients to withdraw funds from our investment strategies or to reduce asset inflows from these third parties or their clients; or Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 21 Table of Contents — the mutual funds and other investment funds that we advise or sub-advise may decide not to renew or to terminate the agreements pursuant to which we advise or sub-advise them and we may not be able to replace these relationships. Our International Equity strategies, which accounted for 64% of our assets under management (“AuM”) as of December 31, 2011, have performed poorly over the past three calendar years. In 2011, net client cash outflows were $16.7 billion, and in January 2012, we had net client cash outflows of $2.8 billion. These net client cash outflows were primarily related to our International Equity strategies. Our investment strategies can perform poorly for a number of reasons, including general market conditions and investment decisions that we make. For instance, investment decisions to overweight or underweight specific markets, sectors or individual stocks may lead our strategies to underperform. Additionally, currency positioning relative to the benchmark may adversely affect performance. Further, when our strategies experience strong results relative to the market or other asset classes, clients’ allocations to our strategies may increase relative to their other investments and we could suffer withdrawals as our clients rebalance their investments to fit their asset allocation preferences. Our International Equity strategies are focused on large diversified funds which tend to attract great investor interest when the MSCI World ex USA Index outperforms the S&P 500 Index, which was not been the case in the recent past. Although relative returns versus the Index were negative for the first half of 2011, the rapid shift in sentiment amid the deteriorating sovereign debt situation led to the majority of the underperformance of our International Equity strategies to occur during the latter half of the year. While clients do not have legal recourse against us solely on the basis of poor investment results, if our investment strategies perform poorly, we are more likely to become subject to litigation brought by dissatisfied clients. In addition, to the extent clients are successful in claiming that their losses resulted from fraud, negligence, willful misconduct, breach of contract or other similar misconduct, such clients may have remedies against us, our investment funds, our investment professionals and/or our affiliates under the federal securities laws and/or state law. Difficult market conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value of our AuM and causing clients to withdraw funds, each of which could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our financial condition. The fees we earn under our investment management agreements are typically based on the market value of our AuM. Investors in open-ended funds can redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice and our clients may reduce the aggregate amount of AuM with us for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. Clients in commingled funds and separately managed accounts may redeem their investments typically with 30 to 60 days’ notice. In addition, the prices of the securities held in the portfolios we manage may decline due to any number of factors beyond our control, including, among others, a declining stock market, general economic downturn, political uncertainty or acts of terrorism. As approximately 68% of our asset mix is in equities, we are subject to greater losses in declining markets and greater gains in rising markets. During extreme periods of market illiquidity, we may be forced to accept a lower price on securities in order to meet redemption requests. As we have seen in connection with the market dislocations since 2008, amid challenging economic and market conditions, the pace of client redemptions or withdrawals from our investment strategies could accelerate if clients move assets to investments they perceive as offering greater opportunity or lower risk. If our AuM decline for any of these reasons, it would result in lower investment management fees. For example, 2011 exhibited pronounced market gyrations in response to continued uncertainty over the state of the global economy and governmental policy responses. Even more unsettling for markets was the still unresolved sovereign debt crisis which became more acute during the summer months. The first half of the year proved relatively positive for financial markets overall. However, this quickly reversed during the second half of 2011, as concerns over the future of the euro zone and the euro, as well as lingering recollections of the 2008 market declines, led many investors to sell equities, high yield and other “risk” assets in favor of the relative 22 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents safety of high quality bonds and cash. Despite a strong rebound in October, the vast majority of international equity markets ended 2011 substantially down, whereas the U.S. equity market managed to end the year in positive territory. With double digit declines across international equity markets in U.S. dollar terms, our AuM were significantly down for the year. With the notable exception of many of the countries on Europe’s periphery, most global equity and fixed income markets moved higher during 2010. Returns were generally far below levels achieved in 2009, but reflected a gradual improvement in investor sentiment. Continued accommodative monetary policies in the developed world, underscored by a second round of quantitative easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve, added to the belief that the economic recovery would remain on course. However, this optimism was tempered by the deteriorated fiscal positions of Greece, Ireland and other peripheral members of the euro zone. This led to joint International Monetary Fund and European Union financial rescue packages, forcing many members into austerity programs. Amid these challenges, the euro declined versus the U.S. dollar for the full year 2011. As a result, this decline in the euro contributed to the negative returns within many European markets in U.S. dollar terms and had an adverse affect on the performance of our strategies. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 14% of our AuM had exposure to the euro, and the fair value of these investments and instruments were affected by movements in the rate of exchange between the U.S. dollar and the euro. In 2011, the MSCI AC World ex USA Index decreased 13.7%, while the gross performances of our International Equity I and International Equity II strategies each trailed the index by 7.5% and 6.6%, respectively. Absolute returns for 2011, for both our International Equity strategies and the MSCI AC World ex USA Index, turned negative during 2011, amid large declines in overseas markets. These declines were fueled by continued worries over the unresolved euro zone sovereign debt crisis, including the possibility of the abandonment of the euro, and growing fears of a renewed global economic downturn. Our AuM in 2011 declined 43% throughout 2011, driven primarily by net client cash outflows in our International Equity I and II strategies, resulting primarily from continued underperformance, as well as market depreciation. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of our strategies. As of December 31, 2011, 64% of our assets under management (“AuM”) were invested in the International Equity I and International Equity II strategies, and 83% of our investment management fees for the year ended December 31, 2011 were attributable to fees earned from those strategies. As a result, our operating results are substantially dependent upon the performance of those strategies and our ability to attract positive net client flows and retain assets within those strategies. For example, in 2011 net client cash outflows were 31% of AuM at the beginning of the year for the firm in total, and 38% of the International Equity I and International Equity II strategies in aggregate. We believe the decisions by investors to withdraw their investments or terminate their investment management agreements were driven by poor investment performance and adverse market conditions. This has caused our revenues from those strategies to decline and had an adverse effect on our earnings. Our results have been impacted since 2009 by net client cash outflows from these strategies, and if withdrawals or terminations by a significant amount of investors in these strategies persist, there may continue to be a material adverse effect on our earnings and could result in a decline in overall investor confidence in us. In addition, our smaller strategies, due to their size, may not be able to generate sufficient fees to cover their expenses. The loss of any key investment professionals, including Messrs. Pell and Younes, or members of our senior management team and senior marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the skills and expertise of qualified investment professionals and our success depends on our ability to retain the key members of our investment team and to attract new qualified investment professionals. In particular, we depend on Messrs. Pell and Younes, who were the architects of our International Equity strategies. Messrs. Pell and Younes, as well as other key members of our investment team, possess substantial experience in investing and have developed strong relationships with our clients. The loss of either of Messrs. Pell or Younes or any of our other key investment professionals could limit our ability to successfully execute our business strategy and may prevent us from sustaining the performance of our investment strategies or adversely affect our ability to retain existing and attract new client assets. In addition, our investment professionals and senior marketing personnel have direct contact with our institutional separate account clients and their consultants, and Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents with key individuals within each of our other distribution sources and the loss of these personnel could jeopardize those relationships and result in the loss of such accounts. We do not carry any “key man” insurance that would provide us with proceeds in the event of the death or disability of Messrs. Pell or Younes or other key members of senior management, our investment team, or senior marketing personnel. We also anticipate that it may be necessary for us to hire additional investment professionals, both within our existing teams and as we further diversify our investment products and strategies. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense and we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. Our ability to retain and attract these personnel will depend heavily on the amount of compensation we offer. Compensation levels in the investment management industry are highly competitive and can fluctuate significantly from year to year. Consequently, our profitability could decline as we compete for personnel. An inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide acceptable levels of service to our clients and funds and hinder our ability to attract new clients and investors to our strategies, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most of our investment strategies consist of investments in the securities of companies located outside of the United States, which may involve foreign currency exchange, tax, political, social and economic uncertainties and risks. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect the returns of our clients who are invested in these strategies. In addition, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to non-U.S. currencies is likely to result in a decrease in the U.S. dollar value of our AuM, which, in turn, could result in lower U.S.-dollar denominated revenue. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 62% of our AuM had exposure to currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Investments in non-U.S. issuers may also be affected by tax positions taken in countries or regions in which we are invested as well as political, social and economic uncertainty, particularly as a result of the recent decline in economic conditions. Many financial markets are not as developed, or as efficient, as the U.S. financial market, and, as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher. Liquidity may also be adversely affected by political or economic events within a particular country, and by increasing the aggregate amount of our investments in smaller non-U.S. issuers. Non-U.S. legal and regulatory environments, including financial accounting standards and practices, may also be different, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. These risks could adversely affect the performance of our strategies that are invested in securities of non-U.S. issuers. During 2011, concerns surrounding the sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone and fears of a global recession, both of which gathered momentum during the second half of 2011, led the euro to further decline relative to the U.S. dollar. As a result, this decline in the euro contributed to the negative returns within many European markets in U.S. dollar terms and had an adverse affect on the performance of our strategies. We derive substantially all of our revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. We derive substantially all of our revenues from investment advisory and sub-advisory agreements, almost all of which are terminable by clients upon short notice. Our investment management agreements with proprietary funds, as required by law, are generally terminable by the funds’ board of directors, or a vote of the majority of the funds’ outstanding voting securities on not more than 60 days’ written notice. After an initial term, each fund’s investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by the independent members of such fund’s board of directors. Our sub-advisory agreements are generally terminable on not more than 60 days’ notice. These investment management agreements may be terminated or not renewed for any number of reasons. The decrease in revenues that could result from the termination of a material contract could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third-party distribution sources to market our investment strategies and access our client base. Our ability to grow our AuM is highly dependent on access to third-party intermediaries, including RIAs and broker dealers. We also provide our services to retail clients through mutual fund platforms and sub-advisory relationships. As of December 31, 2011, our largest mutual fund platform and intermediary each represented approximately 8% of 24 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents our total AuM and our largest sub-advisory relationship represented approximately 2% of our total AuM. We cannot assure you that these sources and client bases will continue to be accessible to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The absence of such access could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Our institutional separate account business is highly dependent upon referrals from pension fund consultants. Many of these consultants review and evaluate our products and our firm from time to time. Poor reviews or evaluations of either a particular product, or of us, may result in client withdrawals or may impair our ability to attract new assets through these intermediaries. Further, there has an been an increase in consolidation among consultants that could be similarly detrimental, if one of the consolidating consultants has a negative view of us and such view prevails. As of December 31, 2011, the consultant advising the largest portion of our client assets under management represented approximately 5% of our AuM. In addition, the recent economic downturn and consolidation in the broker-dealer industry has led to increased competition to market through broker dealers and higher costs, and may lead to reduced distribution access and further cost increases. We have experienced both significant growth and significant declines in AuM from 2003 through 2011. No particular period may be indicative of future performance. Our AuM increased from approximately $7.5 billion as of December 31, 2003 to approximately $75.4 billion as of December 31, 2007, then declined to $45.2 billion as of December 31, 2008, and remained stable in 2009 and 2010 at $56.0 billion and $53.4 billion, respectively. However, AuM declined 43% from December 31, 2010, to $30.4 billion as of December 31, 2011, due primarily to net client cash outflows in our International Equity I and II strategies and market depreciation. Rapid changes in AuM impose substantial demands on our legal and compliance, accounting, risk management, administrative and operational infrastructure. Future growth of our business will depend on a variety of factors including, among other things, our success in producing attractive returns from our investment strategies, global market conditions and volatility, our ability to devote sufficient resources to maintaining existing investment strategies and developing new investment strategies, our distribution capabilities, our ability to deal with changing market conditions and changing appetites for investment strategies, our ability to maintain adequate financial and business controls and our ability to comply with new legal and regulatory requirements arising in response to both the increased sophistication of the investment management market and the significant market and economic events of the last several years. The ongoing euro zone sovereign debt crisis has led to declines in the euro and has raised concerns about the future of the euro, leading many investors to retreat to the U.S. dollar. Until the crisis is resolved, the attraction of international investments on the part of U.S. dollar-based investors may be impacted. In addition, if we believe that in order to continue to produce attractive returns from our investment strategies we should close certain of those strategies to new investors, we may choose to do so. Our failure to properly control expenses as the business decreases or increases, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue and affect overall profitability. We expect there to be significant demands on our infrastructure and investment teams and we cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our expenses effectively as our business reduces, or expands, in size. Any failure to properly manage expenses, could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. For example, in 2011, we implemented organizational changes, which included a staff reduction of 11% of our headcount. We do not believe this affected our revenues in 2011, but rather was designed to lower operating costs and more efficiently manage resources for current business conditions. Even if cost reduction measures do not impair our ability to generate revenue, if they are not sufficient to reduce our overall costs, our overall profitability may be adversely affected. Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance. Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate our employees at competitive rates and we strive to remain above the median for our peer group. Typically employee compensation is a significant expense, is highly variable and changes with performance. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 25 Table of Contents do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees increase, our performance, including our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Our compensation program is designed to attract, retain and motivate employees; however, in the event our investment strategies underperform, in particular our International Equity strategies, or there is a general deterioration of market conditions, a lack of motivation or productivity among employees may result, even if compensation levels remain competitive. Additionally, we utilize equity awards as part of our compensation strategy and as a means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Further declines in our stock price or a failure of employees to meet the goals set by the performance-based awards, could result in further deterioration in the value of restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. For example, the awards that were granted in connection with our IPO in 2009 and awards granted in connection with our annual incentive compensation for 2009 and 2010 have substantially declined in value. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. Our failure to comply with investment guidelines set by our clients, including the boards of mutual funds, could result in damage awards against us and a loss of AuM, either of which could cause our earnings to decline. As an investment advisor, we have a fiduciary duty to our clients. When clients retain us to manage assets on their behalf, they generally specify certain guidelines regarding investment allocation and strategy that we are required to follow in the management of their portfolios. In addition, the boards of mutual funds we manage generally establish similar guidelines regarding the investment of assets in those funds. We are also required to invest the mutual funds’ assets in accordance with limitations under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the “1940 Act”) and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Our failure to comply with these guidelines and other limitations could result in losses to a client or an investor in a fund which, depending on the circumstances, could result in our making clients or fund investors whole for such losses. If we believed that the circumstances did not justify a reimbursement, or clients and investors believed the reimbursement offered was insufficient, they could seek to recover damages from us or could withdraw assets from our management or terminate their investment management agreement. Any of these events could harm our reputation and cause our earnings to decline. We outsource a number of services to third-party vendors and if they fail to perform properly, we may suffer financial loss and liability to our clients. We have developed a business model that is primarily focused on our investment strategies. Accordingly, we seek to outsource, whenever appropriate, certain support functions. The services we outsource include middle- and back-office activities such as trade confirmation, trade settlement, custodian reconciliations, investment performance calculations and client reporting services as well as our front-end trading system and data center, data replication, file transmission, secure remote access and disaster recovery services. The ability of the third-party vendors to perform their functions properly is highly dependent on the adequacy and proper functioning of their communication, information and computer systems. If these systems of the third-party vendors do not function properly, or if the third-party vendors fail to perform their services properly or choose to discontinue providing services to us for any reason, or if we are unable to renew any of our key contracts on similar terms or at all, it could cause our earnings to decline or we could suffer financial losses, business disruption, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. Operational risks may disrupt our business, result in losses or limit our growth. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the communications, information and technology systems supporting our operations, whether owned and operated by us or by third parties. Operational risks such as human trading errors or interruption of our financial, accounting, trading, compliance and other data processing systems, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster or pandemic, power or telecommunications failure, act of terrorism or war or otherwise, could result in a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage, and thus materially adversely affect our business. The risks related to trading errors are increased by the recent extraordinary market volatility, which can magnify the cost of 26 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents an error. For example, for the years ended 2009 through 2011 we experienced trading errors that cost us approximately $0.8 million, $1.7 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Insurance and other safeguards might not be available or might only partially reimburse us for our losses. Although we have back-up systems in place, our back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of a failure or interruption may not be adequate. The inability of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions also could constrain our ability to expand our businesses. Additionally, any upgrades or expansions to our operations and/or technology may require significant expenditures and may increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations and failures. We also depend on access to our headquarters in New York City, where a majority of our employees are located, for the continued operation of our business. Any significant disruption to our headquarters could have a material adverse effect on us. Employee misconduct could expose us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. We are vulnerable to reputational harm as we operate in an industry where integrity and the confidence of our clients are of critical importance. Our employees could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. For example, if an employee were to engage in illegal or suspicious activities, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and suffer serious harm to our reputation (as a consequence of the negative perception resulting from such activities), financial position, client relationships and ability to attract new clients. Our business often requires that we deal with confidential information. If any of our employees were to improperly use or disclose this information, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not always be effective. Misconduct by our employees, or even unsubstantiated allegations of misconduct, could result in a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business. If our techniques for managing risk are ineffective, we may be exposed to material unanticipated losses. In order to manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, assess and manage the full spectrum of our risks including market, fiduciary, operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. Our risk management methods may prove to be ineffective due to their design or implementation, or as a result of the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information or otherwise. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators. Our techniques for managing risks in client portfolios may not fully mitigate the risk exposure in all economic or market environments, or against all types of risk, including risks that we might fail to identify or anticipate. Any failures in our risk management techniques and strategies to accurately quantify such risk exposure could limit our ability to manage risks in those portfolios or to seek positive, risk-adjusted returns. In addition, any risk management failures could cause portfolio losses to be significantly greater than historical measures predict. Our more qualitative approach to managing those risks could prove insufficient, exposing us to material unanticipated losses in the value of client portfolios and therefore a reduction in our revenues. Our failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business. Potential, perceived and actual conflicts of interest are inherent in our existing and future investment activities. For example, certain of our strategies have overlapping investment objectives and potential conflicts of interest may arise with respect to our decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among those strategies. In addition, investors (or holders of our Class A common stock) may perceive conflicts of interest regarding investment decisions for strategies in which our investment professionals, who have and may continue to make significant personal investments, are personally invested. Potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest could give rise to investor dissatisfaction, litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. Adequately addressing conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and we could suffer significant reputational harm if we fail, or appear to fail, to adequately address potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest. Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 27 Table of Contents Our use of leverage may expose us to substantial risks that may adversely affect our growth strategy and business. We also may not be able to refinance our existing debt. In September 2009, Holdings established a $110.0 million credit facility consisting of a $60.0 million three-year term credit facility and a $50.0 million three-year revolving credit facility (which was increased to $100.0 million in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement in January 2011). In October 2009, Holdings borrowed $60.0 million under the term credit facility and began quarterly repayments in December 2010. As of December 31, 2011, Holdings has repaid $22.5 million of its borrowings under the term credit facility. The incurrence of this debt exposes us to the typical risks associated with the use of leverage. Increased leverage makes it more difficult for us to withstand adverse economic conditions or business plan variances, to take advantage of new business opportunities, or to make necessary capital expenditures. The agreements governing our debt facilities contain covenant restrictions that limit our ability to conduct our business, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness. A substantial portion of our cash flow could be required for debt service and, as a result, might not be available for our operations or other purposes. Any substantial decrease in net operating cash flows or any substantial increase in expenses could make it difficult for us to meet our debt service requirements or force us to modify our operations. Our level of indebtedness may make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business, regulatory and economic conditions. Our ability to refinance our existing debt depends upon, among other things, general economic conditions, conditions of the asset management industry, the state of the capital markets and the Company’s performance. If we are unable to refinance our debt or to raise additional capital on acceptable terms, our ability to operate our business could be impaired. Our ability to make interest and principal payments on our debt and borrow additional funds on favorable terms depends, primarily on the future performance of the business. If we have cash flow constraints, we may seek to refinance all or a part of our debt or to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt or raise additional capital on acceptable terms. We are subject to risks relating to new initiatives which may adversely affect our growth strategy and business. A key component of our growth and diversification strategy is to focus on achieving superior, long-term investment performance. Any new initiative we pursue will be subject to numerous risks, some unknown and some known, which may be different from and in addition to the risks we face in our existing business, including, among others, risks associated with newly established strategies without any operating history, risks associated with potential, perceived or actual conflicts of interest, risks relating to the misuse of confidential information, risks due to potential lack of liquidity in the securities in which these initiatives invest and risks due to a general lack of liquidity in the global financial market that could make it harder to obtain equity or debt financing. In developing any new initiatives, we may decide to utilize the expertise and research of our current investment professionals, which may place significant strain on resources and distract our investment professionals from the strategies that they currently manage. This reliance on our existing investment teams may also increase the possibility of a conflict of interest arising, given the differing fee structures associated with these new initiatives. Our growth strategy may require significant investment, including capital commitments to seed new products and to fund additional operating expenses as well as the hiring of additional investment professionals, which may place significant strain on our financial, operational and management resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve our growth strategy or that we will succeed in any new initiatives. Failure to achieve or manage such growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to effectively manage our cash flow, liquidity and capital position could negatively affect our business. Our working capital requirements historically have been met through operating cash flows. We believe our current working capital is sufficient to meet our current obligations. We continue to strengthen our balance sheet and capital position. If we are unable to effectively manage our cash flows and liquidity position or unable to continue to generate and maintain positive operating cash flows and operating income in the future, we may not be able to repay our debt obligations, compensate for an increase in expenses, pay dividends to stockholders or invest in our business. 28 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents Failure to comply with “fair value” pricing, “market timing” and late trading policies and procedures may adversely affect us. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has adopted rules that require mutual funds to adopt “fair value” pricing procedures to address time zone arbitrage, selective disclosure procedures to protect mutual fund portfolio information and procedures to ensure compliance with a mutual fund’s disclosed market timing policy. SEC rules also require our mutual funds to ensure compliance with their own market timing policies. Our mutual funds are subject to these rules and, in the event of our non-compliance, we may be required to disgorge certain revenue. In addition, we could have penalties imposed on us, be required to pay fines or be subject to private litigation, any of which could decrease our future income, or negatively affect our current business or our future growth prospects. During periods of market volatility there is often an increased need to adjust a security’s price to approximate its fair value. This in turn increases the risk that we could breach the fair value pricing and market timing rules. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressure to reduce fees or as a result of changes in our business mix, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain our current fee structure as a result of industry pressures to reduce fees or as a result of changes in our business mix. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the basis of our performance and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a general trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that incentivize our investors to pay our fees. We cannot assure you that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. The board of directors of each mutual fund we manage must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of our fees and can renegotiate them annually which has, in the past, led to a reduction in fees. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and/or results of operations. We may suffer losses from our seed capital investments. In September 2010, we launched and seeded a global credit hedge fund with $19 million of firm capital, which aims to deliver absolute returns with low volatility and a low correlation to other asset classes by exploiting overlooked areas of value in stressed capital structures and under-researched international credits utilizing the experience of our investment teams. In May 2011, we launched and seeded a Local Emerging Market Debt Fund, seeding it with $22 million of firm capital, which aims to provide a high level of total return consisting of income and capital appreciation by investing in fixed income instruments denominated in emerging market currencies. We also made investments of approximately $3 million into our U.S. Equity strategies in conjunction with the redemption of GAM Holding AG’s (“GAM”) investments in the funds. We could suffer losses from these seed capital investments in these strategies. For example, in the third quarter of 2011, due to the volatility of the markets, we suffered a net loss of $5.7 million related to such seed investments, and for the full year 2011, we incurred a net loss of $3.5 million. A change of control of our company could result in termination of our investment advisory agreements. Under the 1940 Act, each of the investment advisory agreements for SEC-registered mutual funds that our subsidiary, Investment Adviser, advises automatically terminates in the event of an assignment. Each fund’s board and shareholders must therefore approve a new agreement in order for our subsidiary to continue to act as its advisor. In addition, under the Advisers Act each of the investment advisory agreements for the separate accounts we manage may not be “assigned” without the consent of the client. An assignment of our subsidiary’s investment management agreements may occur if, among other things, Investment Adviser undergoes a change of control. If such an assignment occurs, we cannot be certain that Investment Adviser will be able to obtain the necessary approvals from the boards and shareholders of the SEC- registered funds that it advises, or the necessary consents from clients whose funds are managed pursuant to Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 29 Table of Contents separate accounts. Under the 1940 Act, if an SEC-registered fund’s investment advisor engages in a transaction that results in the assignment of its investment management agreement with the fund, the advisor may not impose an “unfair burden” on that fund as a result of the transaction for a two-year period after the transaction is completed. Our IPO constituted a change of control for purposes of the 1940 Act. The cost of insuring our business and providing benefits to our employees is substantial and may increase. Our insurance costs are substantial and can fluctuate from year to year. Insurance costs increased in 2009, as coverage was extended to meet the needs of being a public company, but decreased in 2010, and further decreased in 2011, even with an increase in the firm’s insurance coverage. In addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. As we renew our insurance policies, we may be subject to additional costs resulting from rising premiums, the assumption of higher deductibles and/or co-insurance liability and, to the extent certain of our U.S. funds purchase separate director and officer and/or error and omission liability coverage, an increased risk of insurance companies disputing responsibility for joint claims. Higher insurance costs and incurred deductibles would reduce our net income. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our proprietary business information and that of our customers, and personally identifiable information of our clients and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, which could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to our Industry The investment management business is intensely competitive. The investment management business is intensely competitive, with competition based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, continuity of investment professionals and client relationships, the quality of services provided to clients, corporate positioning and business reputation, continuity of selling arrangements with intermediaries and differentiated products. A number of factors, including the following, serve to increase our competitive risks: — a number of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, better name recognition and more personnel than we do; — there are relatively low barriers impeding entry to new investment funds, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses; — the recent trend toward consolidation in the investment management industry, and the securities business in general, has served to increase the size and strength of a number of our competitors; — some investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager that is not publicly traded based on the perception that publicly traded companies may focus on growth to the detriment of performance; — some competitors may invest according to different investment styles or in alternative asset classes that the markets may perceive as more attractive than our investment approach; — the recent trend toward passive or index investments; — some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to investment opportunities; and — other industry participants, hedge funds and alternative asset managers may seek to recruit our qualified investment professionals. 30 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively, our earnings would be reduced and our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, many of our competitors have a more diversified business and are not exposed to the same level of business risk as we are as a highly concentrated investment manager. We are subject to extensive regulation. We are subject to extensive regulation in the United States, primarily at the federal level, including regulation by the SEC under the Exchange Act, the 1940 Act and the Advisers Act, by the Department of Labor under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, as well as regulation by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc., or FINRA, and state regulators. The mutual funds we manage are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the 1940 Act. The Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisors including record keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The 1940 Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on registered investment companies, which must be strictly adhered to by their investment advisors. In addition, our mutual funds are subject to the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which requires each fund to know certain information about its clients and to monitor their transactions for suspicious financial activities, including money laundering. The U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, has issued regulations requiring that we refrain from doing business, or allowing our clients to do business through us, in certain countries or with certain organizations or individuals on a list maintained by the U.S. government. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of the registration of any of our subsidiaries as a registered investment advisor. In addition to the extensive regulation to which our asset management business is subject in the United States, we are also subject to regulation internationally by the Ontario Securities Commission, the Irish Financial Institutions Regulatory Authority, the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, and the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission. Further, as our international distribution channels expand, we will be subject to an increasing amount of international regulation. Our business is already subject to the rules and regulations of the more than 40 countries in which we currently conduct investment activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the foreign countries where we invest could result in fines, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions. See “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Environment and Compliance.” The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to continual change and regulatory developments designed to increase oversight may adversely affect our business. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and SEC regulations, have created uncertainty for public companies and significantly increased the costs and risks associated with accessing the U.S. public markets. This has resulted in significant changes in the legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate and while there is an ordinary evolution to regulation, we believe there will be further regulatory changes as a result of the recent changing laws, which will result in subjecting participants to additional regulation. The requirements imposed by our regulators are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect customers and other third parties who deal with us, and are not designed to protect our stockholders. Consequently, these regulations often serve to limit our activities, including through customer protection and market conduct requirements. New laws or regulations, or changes in the enforcement of existing laws or regulations, applicable to us and our clients may adversely affect our business. Our ability to function in this environment will depend on our ability to constantly monitor and promptly react to legislative and regulatory changes. For investment management firms in general, there have been a number of highly publicized regulatory inquiries that focus on the mutual fund industry. These inquiries already have resulted in increased scrutiny in the industry and new rules and regulations for mutual funds and their investment managers. This regulatory scrutiny may limit our ability to engage in certain activities that might be beneficial to our stockholders. See “Item 1. Business – Regulatory Environment and Compliance.” Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 31 Table of Contents In addition, we also may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. Compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. The investment management industry faces substantial litigation risks which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. We depend to a large extent on our network of relationships and on our reputation in order to attract and retain clients. If a client is not satisfied with our services, such dissatisfaction may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. We make investment decisions on behalf of our clients that could result in substantial losses to them. If our clients suffer significant losses, or are otherwise dissatisfied with our services, we could be subject to the risk of legal liabilities or actions alleging negligent misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of contract, unjust enrichment and/or fraud. These risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time, even after an action has been commenced. We may incur significant legal expenses in defending against litigation. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we must maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and included in this annual report is management’s assessment in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While management believes that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011, because internal control over financial reporting is complex and may change over time to adapt to changes in our business, we cannot assure you that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. If we are not able to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to produce reliable financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the required dates. Matters affecting our internal controls may cause us to be unable to report our financial information accurately and/or on a timely basis and thereby subject us to adverse regulatory consequences, including sanctions or investigations by the SEC, or violations of applicable stock exchange listing rules, and result in a breach of the covenants under our credit facility. There could also be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of investor confidence in us and the reliability of our financial statements. Confidence in the reliability of our financial statements is also likely to suffer if we report, or our independent registered public accounting firm reports, a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. This could lead to a material adverse effect on our business, a decline in our share price and impair our ability to raise capital. Risks Relating to our Structure Our ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. Our Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we will be dependent upon the ability of our subsidiaries to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay dividends to our stockholders. We expect to cause Holdings to make distributions to its members, including us. However, its ability to make such distributions will be subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable provisions of Delaware law which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members, its compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, and its other agreements with third parties. In addition, each of the companies in the corporate chain must manage its assets, liabilities and working capital in order to meet all of its cash obligations, including the payment of dividends or distributions. As a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce or eliminate, the payment of dividends on our Class A common stock. 32 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents Our ability to pay taxes and expenses may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. As a holding company, we have no material assets other than our ownership of New Class A Units of Holdings and we have no independent means of generating revenue. Holdings is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes and, as such, is not subject to U.S. federal and state income tax. Instead, taxable income is allocated to its members, i.e. to us and the Principals. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Holdings and also incur expenses related to our operations. We intend to cause Holdings to distribute cash to its members (i.e. to us and the Principals). However, its ability to make such distributions is subject to various limitations and restrictions as set forth in the preceding risk factor. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we do not have sufficient funds to pay tax or other liabilities or to fund the firm’s operations, we may have to borrow funds and thus, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We will be required to pay the Principals most of the tax benefits of any depreciation or amortization deductions we may claim as a result of the tax basis step up we receive in connection with their exchanges of New Class A Units and our purchase of other New Class A Units. Any taxable exchanges by the Principals of New Class A Units for shares of our Class A common stock are expected to result in increases in the tax basis in the tangible and intangible assets of Holdings connected with such New Class A Units. The increase in tax basis is expected to reduce the amount of tax that we would otherwise be required to pay in the future, although the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”), might challenge all or part of this tax basis increase, and a court might sustain such a challenge. We entered into a tax receivable agreement with the Principals, pursuant to which we agreed to pay them 85% of the amount of the reduction, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize (or are deemed to realize upon an early termination of the tax receivable agreement or a change of control, both discussed below) as a result of the increases in tax basis created by their exchanges or our purchases of New Class A Units. We have previously recorded a deferred tax asset on our historical financial statements with respect to the tax basis increase that we would have received in connection with our prior obligation to redeem certain interests of our Principals. At the time of the IPO we de-recognized this deferred tax asset recorded on our balance sheet. Following the IPO, we recorded a deferred tax asset upon the exchange of each Principal’s New Class A Units for shares of our Class A common stock. In conjunction with the establishment of the deferred tax asset we established a related liability for amounts due under the tax receivable agreement. See “Item 8. Financial Statement and Supplementary Data. Note 2. Initial Public Offering, Changes in Principals’ Interests and Exchange of New Class A Units: Exchange of New Class A Units.” The actual increase in tax basis, as well as the amount and timing of any payments under this agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, including the price of our Class A common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable, the amount and timing of our income and the tax rates then applicable. Payments under the tax receivable agreement are expected to give rise to certain additional tax benefits attributable to further increases in basis or, in certain circumstances, in the form of deductions for imputed interest. Any such benefits are covered by the tax receivable agreement and will increase the amounts due thereunder. In addition, the tax receivable agreement provides for interest accrued from the due date (without extensions) of the corresponding tax return to the date of payment specified by the tax receivable agreement. We expect that, as a result of the size and increases in the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of Holdings attributable to the exchanged New Class A Units, the payments that we may make to the Principals will be substantial. See “Item 8. Financial Statement and Supplementary Data. Note 13. Income Taxes: Tax Receivable Agreement.” Moreover, if we exercise our right to terminate the tax receivable agreement early, we will be obligated to make an early termination payment to the Principals, or their transferees, based upon the net present value (based upon certain assumptions and deemed events set forth in the tax receivable agreement, including the assumption that we would have enough taxable income in the future to fully utilize the tax benefits resulting from any increased tax basis that results from an exchange and that any New Class A Units that the Principals or their transferees Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 33 Table of Contents own on the termination date are deemed to be exchanged on the termination date) of all payments that would be required to be paid by us under the tax receivable agreement. If certain change of control events were to occur, we would be obligated to make payments to the Principals using certain assumptions and deemed events similar to those used to calculate an early termination payment. We will not be reimbursed for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if such basis increase is successfully challenged by the IRS. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments could be made under the tax receivable agreement in excess of our cash tax savings. In addition, the availability of the tax benefits may be limited by change in law or regulations, possibly with a retroactive effect. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to thwart a takeover attempt. The market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts that our stockholders may favor. See “Description of Capital Stock” for additional information on the anti-takeover measures applicable to us. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock An active market for our Class A common stock may not be sustained. Shares of our Class A common stock are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the symbol “ART”. We are required to comply with the NYSE’s listing standards in order to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on the exchange. The NYSE has the authority to delist our Class A common stock if, during any period of 30 consecutive trading days, the average closing share price falls below $1.00 or the average market capitalization of our Class A common stock falls below $50.0 million and, at the same time, total stockholders’ equity is less than $50.0 million, and in either case we are unable to satisfy these standards within the time periods specified under NYSE regulations. In addition, the NYSE has the authority to delist our Class A common stock if the NYSE determines that the trading price of our shares is abnormally low or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable NYSE regulations or criteria used in evaluating continued listing status. As of February 1, 2012, during the previous 30 consecutive trading days, the average closing share price of our Class A common stock was $4.77 per share and the average market capitalization of our Class A common stock was approximately $283 million, excluding securities exchangeable for, or convertible into, shares of our Class A common stock. The price of our Class A common stock could continue to decline. Since our IPO in September 2009, the price of our common stock has declined and such declines could continue. From September 24, 2009, to February 1, 2012, our common stock has closed as low as $4.25 per share and as high as $27.25 per share. Factors that may contribute to fluctuations in our stock price include, but are not limited to, general stock market conditions, general market conditions for the asset management industry, our investment performance, net client cash flows and our operating results. The decline in our stock price could affect employee sentiment as the value of equity an employee holds declines. Further, declines in the stock price could alter client perceptions of our future investment performance or client perceptions regarding the stability of our business. The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our stockholders. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. See “Price Range of Our Class A Common Stock”. In addition, the trading volume in our Class A common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their Class A common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our Class A common 34 Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report Table of Contents stock. If the market price of our Class A common stock declines significantly, holders may be unable to resell their Class A common stock at or above their purchase price, if at all. We cannot provide any assurance that the market price of our Class A common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our Class A common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our Class A common stock include: — variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends, or a decision to not pay a regular dividend; — failure to meet analysts’ earnings estimates; — difficulty in complying with the provisions in our credit agreement such as financial covenants and amortization requirements; — publication of research reports or press reports about us, our investments or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our Class A common stock; — additions or departures of our Principals and other key management personnel; — adverse market reaction to any indebtedness we may incur or securities we may issue in the future; — actions by stockholders; — lack of liquidity in our Class A common stock, which could hinder the ability to sell the stock or lower the price attained; — changes in market valuations of similar companies; — speculation in the press or investment community; — changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; — litigation or governmental investigations; — fluctuations in the performance or share price of other industry participants, hedge funds or alternative asset managers; — poor investment performance or other complications affecting our funds or current or proposed investments; — redemptions by clients of their assets; — adverse publicity about the asset management industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; — sales of a large number of our Class A common stock or the perception that such sales could occur; and — general market and economic conditions. The price of our Class A common stock may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale and for exchange into Class A common stock. The market price of our Class A common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of our Class A common stock or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2011, we had 58,051,113 outstanding shares of our Class A common stock on a fully diluted basis and 3,760,442 restricted stock units (“RSUs”) granted to employees, excluding dividend equivalents. As of December 31, 2011, each of our Principals owned an aggregate of 600,000 shares of New Class A Units of Holdings, which are exchangeable for shares of our Class A common stock, and also owned the same number of shares of our Class B common stock, and approximately 5.1 million shares of Class A Common stock. Each Principal also has the right to exchange his remaining New Class A Units to shares of Class A common stock on a one-to-one basis, subject to certain restrictions contained in the exchange agreement with us and the Principals. Artio Global Investors Inc. 2011 Annual Report 35 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, GAM owned 16,755,844 shares of our Class A common stock. On September 29, 2011, pursuant to our Certificate of Incorporation, the outstanding shares of Class C common stock held by GAM automatically converted to Class A common stock on a one-to-one basis. Each of our Principals and GAM have registration rights permitting them to sell their stock, subject to transfer restrictions in the case of our Principals. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A common stock may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. See “Shares Eligible for Future Sale.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company has no unresolved SEC comments. 