ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of our common shares which may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or that other unknown risks exist that may affect our business. We have a history of losses and will require additional financing to fund exploration and, if warranted, development and production. Failure to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation and could cast uncertainty on our ability to continue as a going concern. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, our net loss was $35.0 million. Our accumulated deficit at June 30, 2012 was $61.8 million. At June 30, 2012, our cash position was $51.7 million, of which $37.0 million was considered cash and cash equivalents and $14.6 million was held as short-term investments. Our working capital position was $50.1 million. We have not commenced commercial production on any of our mineral properties. We have no revenues from operations, and we anticipate we will have no operating revenues until we place the Bear Lodge Property into production. Our Bear Lodge Property is currently in the exploration stage. We do not have sufficient funds to fully complete exploration and development work on the Bear Lodge Property, which means that we will be required to raise additional capital, enter into joint venture relationships or find alternative means to finance the placing of our Bear Lodge Property into commercial production. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration and development or production on our Bear Lodge Property and any properties we may acquire in the future or even a loss of property interests. We cannot be certain that additional capital or other types of financing will be available if needed or that, if available, the terms of such financing will be favorable or acceptable to us. Future financings may cause dilution to our shareholders. Our ability to arrange additional financing in the future will depend, in part, on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance. We are an exploration stage company and have no history producing metals from our properties. Any future revenues and profits are uncertain. We have no history of mining or refining any mineral products or metals and none of our properties is currently producing. There can be no assurance that the Bear Lodge Property will be successfully placed into production, 13 produce minerals in commercial quantities or otherwise generate operating earnings. Advancing properties from the exploration stage into development and commercial production requires significant capital and time and will be subject to further feasibility studies, permitting requirements and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads and related works and infrastructure. We will continue to incur losses until our mining activities successfully reach commercial production levels and generate sufficient revenue to fund continuing operations. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue from any source, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues or profits, our shareholders might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common shares. The planned development of our Bear Lodge Property involves numerous uncertainties that could affect the feasibility or profitability of such project. Mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the development phase before production is possible. Development projects are subject to the completion of successful feasibility studies and environmental and socioeconomic assessments, the issuance of necessary governmental permits and receipt of adequate financing. The economic feasibility of development projects is based on many factors such as: · completion of definitive feasibility studies to further verify Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources and commercial viability; · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of further exploration, preparing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; · securing a commercially viable sales outlet for our products; · the availability and costs of drill equipment, skilled labor and mining and processing equipment, if required; · the availability and cost of appropriate processing and/or refining arrangements, if required; · compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; · the availability of funds to finance exploration, development and construction activities, as warranted; · negotiating sales or off-take contracts for our planned production; · future REE and gold prices; · potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups or local groups or inhabitants which may delay or prevent development activities; · potential increases in exploration, construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials and supplies; and · potential shortages of mineral processing, construction and other facilities related supplies. It is common in exploration programs and, if warranted, development, construction and mine start-up to experience unexpected problems and delays. Accordingly, our activities may not result in profitable mining operations and we may not succeed in establishing mining operations or profitably producing metals at our Bear Lodge Property. Our growth depends on the exploration, permitting, development and operation of our Bear Lodge REE Project, which is our only rare earth project. Our only rare earth exploration property at this time is our Bear Lodge REE Project. Our continued viability is based on successfully implementing our strategy, including completion of a definitive feasibility study, permitting and construction of a mine and processing facilities in an expected timeframe. The deterioration or destruction of any part of our property may significantly hinder our ability to maintain a sustainable or profitable business. Increased costs could affect our ability to bring our projects into production and once in production, to be profitable. We have estimated the capital costs required to bring the Bear Lodge REE Project into commercial production in our PFS. Our actual costs may be higher than we presently anticipate which could make it more difficult to finance the project or to successfully establish mining operations at the Bear Lodge REE Project. We anticipate that our future operating costs at the Bear Lodge Property will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans, 14 in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel, rubber, and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production less profitable or not profitable at all. A material increase in costs could also impact our ability to maintain operations. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth products. Because our primary focus currently is the exploration and development of the Bear Lodge REE Project, changes in demand for, and the market price of, REE and related products could significantly affect our ability to develop and finance the Bear Lodge REE Project and eventually attain commercial production and profitability. The value and price of our common shares may be adversely affected by declines in the prices of REE and related products. REE and REE product prices may fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies on the world market, global and regional supply and demand for REE and REE products, and the political and economic conditions of countries that produce REE. As a result of the global economic crisis, REE prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009. Although REE prices increased during 2010 and most of 2011, they experienced a significant drop again in the first eight months of 2012. Average prices for lanthanum oxide and cerium oxide decreased by approximately 50% during the second half of 2012 due, in part, to a reduction in reported speculative buying of rare earth materials in China. Protracted periods of low prices for REE and REE products could significantly reduce our ability to develop the Bear Lodge REE Project or, if we attain commercial production, to maintain operations. Reduced REE prices could also reduce our Mineral Reserves and Mineral Resources. Demand for REE may be impacted by demand for downstream products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power equipment and other clean technology products, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronic industries. Lack of growth in these markets may adversely affect the demand for REE products, which would have a material adverse effect on our Bear Lodge REE Project and our business. In contrast, extended periods of high commodity prices may create economic dislocations that may be destabilizing to rare earth minerals supply and demand and ultimately to the broader markets. Periods of high REE prices generally are beneficial to us; however, strong REE prices, as well as real or perceived disruptions in the supply of REE, also create economic pressure to identify or create alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand for REE and REE products, and at the same time may incentivize development of otherwise marginal mining properties. For example, automobile manufacturers have recently announced plans to develop motors for electric and hybrid cars that do not require rare earth metals due to concerns about the available supply of rare earths. If the automobile industry or other industries reduce their reliance on rare earth products, the resulting change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business. Conditions in the rare earth industry have been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, which could have a material impact on our company. Conditions in the rare earth industry have been extremely volatile, and prices, as well as supply and demand, have been significantly impacted by a number of factors, principally changes in economic conditions and demand for rare earth materials and changes, or perceived changes, in Chinese quotas for export of rare earth materials. Dramatic price fluctuations are due, in part, to a reduction in reported speculative buying of rare earth materials in China. If conditions in our industry remain volatile, our stock price may continue to exhibit volatility as well. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, our stock price would likely decline, and this could also impair our ability to obtain capital needed for our Bear Lodge Project and our ability to find purchasers for our products at prices acceptable to us. An increase in the global supply of rare earth products, dumping and predatory pricing by our competitors may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital, develop our Bear Lodge Property and operate profitably. The pricing and demand for REE products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including growth of economic development and the global supply and demand for REO products. According to IMCOA, it is estimated that China accounted for approximately 94% of global REO production in 2011. China also dominates the manufacture of metals and NdFeB magnets from rare earths, a capacity that is not currently found in the United States. Once we reach production of REOs, the increased competition may lead our competitors to engage in 15 predatory pricing behavior or manipulation of the available supply of REOs. Any increase in the amount of rare earth products exported from other nations and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of potential market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profitability. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to compete effectively against our future competitors. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the establishment of new uses and markets for rare earth products. The success of our business will depend, in part, on the establishment of new markets by us or third parties for certain rare earth products that may be in low demand. Although we plan to produce rare earth products for use in end products such as NdFeB magnets, which are used in critical existing and emerging technologies such as hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power turbines and compact fluorescent lighting, the success of our business depends on creating new markets and successfully commercializing rare earth products in existing and emerging markets. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of any of the foregoing products and applications could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our Bear Lodge Property and operate our business. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our exploration and, if warranted, development and mining operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our planned activities and increase our costs and expenses. Mining and mineral exploration and development are inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans. Mining and mineral exploration involves various types of risks and hazards, including: · environmental hazards; · power outages; · metallurgical and other processing problems; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · personal injury, flooding, fire, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and rock-bursts; · metals losses; · fluctuations in exploration, development and production costs; · labor disputes; · unanticipated variations in grade; · mechanical equipment failure; and · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, may be prohibitively expensive. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by insurance policies. Mineral exploration and development is highly speculative, and certain inherent exploration risks could have a negative effect on our business. Our long-term success depends on our ability to identify mineral deposits on existing properties and other properties we may acquire, if any, that can then be developed into commercially viable mining operations. Resource exploration is a highly speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Substantial expenditures are required to establish Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves through drilling and 16 analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by us may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond our control and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors such as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. Any one or a combination of these factors may result in our failure to receive an adequate return on our investment capital. The decision to abandon a project may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares and our ability to raise future financing. Mineral Resource estimates are based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. Unless otherwise indicated, our Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resources estimates are based upon estimates made by independent geologists and our internal geologists. When making determinations about whether to advance the Bear Lodge Property to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the Mineral Reserves and grades of mineralization on the property. Until ore is actually mined and processed, Mineral Reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. Estimates can be imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that: · Mineral Resource or other mineralization estimates will be accurate; or · that this mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Our Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates could be inaccurate, and any material changes in these estimates will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production. Because we have not completed a definitive feasibility study on the Bear Lodge Property and have not commenced actual production, mineralization estimates, including Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates, for the Bear Lodge Property may require adjustments or downward revisions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated by any pre-feasibility or definitive feasibility studies and drill results. Minerals recovered in small scale tests may not be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Our Mineral Reserve and Mineral Resource estimates have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for REEs and gold may render portions of our Mineral Reserves or Mineral Resources uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization or adversely affect the commercial viability determinations reached by us. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our share price and the value of our Bear Lodge Property. Title to our Bear Lodge Property may be subject to other claims, or we may lose our interest in our claims or lease with the State of Wyoming, which could affect our property rights and claims. There are risks that title to our Bear Lodge Property may be challenged or impugned. Our Bear Lodge Property is located in the state of Wyoming and may be subject to prior unrecorded agreements or transfers or native land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of our Bear Lodge Property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. The vast majority of the mineral rights to our Bear Lodge Property consist of "unpatented" mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. general mining law. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations under the U.S. general mining law. Also, unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges by third parties or validity contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining or mill site claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of U.S. federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively determine the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. Should 17 the federal government impose a royalty or additional tax burdens on the properties that lie within public lands, the resulting mining operations could be seriously impacted, depending upon the type and amount of the burden. The mining lease we hold through the State of Wyoming is subject to payment obligations and renewals. There is a risk that we may not be granted a renewal upon request to continue to hold the lease through the exploration and planned operation of the Bear Lodge Property. The royalty imposed by the State is subject to further definition and may also be an impediment to our exploration and planned operations, depending upon the burden that could be imposed. The loss of the State of Wyoming mining lease rights, or future royalties or taxes imposed by the State of Wyoming, would adversely affect our property. Our operations are subject to significant uninsured risks that could negatively impact future profitability as we maintain limited insurance against our operations. The exploration of our Bear Lodge Property contain certain risks, including unexpected or unusual operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against these risks. Should events such as these arise, they could reduce or eliminate our assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and a decline in the value of our assets or common shares. We expect to maintain general liability, director and officer insurance, and some insurance against our assets but not with full replacement of value expectations. We may decide to update or amend our insurance portfolio in the future if it is available at economically viable rates. Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of our control which could negatively impact our business or operations. The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, imports, exports and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on the costs of our operations and if significant enough, reduce the profitability or viability of operations. Permitting, licensing and approval processes are required for our operations and obtaining and maintaining these permits and licenses is subject to conditions which we may be unable to achieve. Many of the operations at the Bear Lodge Property require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. We believe we hold, or are in the process of obtaining, all necessary licenses and permits to carry on the activities which we are currently conducting or propose to conduct under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain the current or planned exploration and mining activities including constructing mines or milling facilities and commencing operations at the Bear Lodge Property. In addition, if we proceed to production on the Bear Lodge Property or any other properties that we may acquire in the future, we must obtain and comply with permits and licenses which may contain specific operating conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that we will be able to comply with any such conditions. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses may be prohibitive and could delay planned exploration and development activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, which affect our operations and impact the cost of conducting our business. 18 Our current and future operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations, including: · laws and regulations governing mineral concession acquisition, prospecting, development, mining and production; · laws and regulations related to exports, taxes and fees; · labor standards and regulations related to occupational health and mine safety; · environmental standards and regulations related to waste disposal, toxic substances, land use and environmental protection; and · other matters. Companies engaged in exploration activities often experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits may result in enforcement actions, including the forfeiture of claims, orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities requiring operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or costly remedial actions. We may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of our mineral exploration activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of such laws, regulations and permits. Existing and possible future laws, regulations and permitting requirements governing operations and activities of exploration companies, or more stringent implementation, could have a material adverse impact on our business and cause increases in capital expenditures or require abandonment or delays in exploration. Our operations are subject to environmental risks and compliance with environmental regulations which are increasing and costly. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and future changes in these laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays and may cause material changes or delays in our current and planned operations and future activities. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our Bear Lodge Property or some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. Examples of current U.S. Federal Laws which may affect our current operations and may impact future business and operations include, but are not limited to, the following: The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), and comparable state statutes, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the government to file claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages, or for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up of sites and disposal of substances found on exploration, mining and processing sites long after activities on such sites have been completed. The Clean Air Act, as amended, restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including mining and processing activities. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment, which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules may 19 impose limitations on our production levels or result in additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the regulations. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of their proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare a detailed statement known as an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, other federal agencies, and any interested third parties will review and comment on the scoping of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. We are required to undertake the NEPA process for the Bear Lodge Property permitting. The NEPA process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate its potential environmental impacts, which can in turn impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project or the ability to construct or operate the Bear Lodge Property or other properties entirely. The Clean Water Act (CWA), and comparable state statutes, imposes restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water mining facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. The program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling a disposal or injection well. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Land reclamation requirements for our properties may be burdensome and expensive. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. 20 Reclamation may include requirements to: · control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; · treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and · reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with the potential development activities at the Bear Lodge Property, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. We have set up a provision for reclamation obligations as currently anticipated for the Bear Lodge Property, as appropriate, but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry and our business. Members of the U.S. Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of unpatented mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our ability to operate or our financial performance. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. The mining industry is intensely competitive. Significant competition exists for the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing REE, gold or other metals. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because we must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than we have. We may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in our efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs, mining equipment and production equipment. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding, acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future, or attract or retain key personnel or outside technical resources. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a negative impact on our financial position and results. Our property interests in the United States make it subject to foreign currency fluctuations that may adversely affect our financial position and results. We maintain accounts in Canadian dollars, and thus, any appreciation in the US Dollar against the Canadian Dollar increases the costs of carrying out our operations in the United States. Management may or may not enter into any foreign currency contracts from time-to-time to mitigate this risk. By failing to enter into currency contracts, or the risk in the currency contracts themselves, may cause losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. We are dependent on key personnel and the absence of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our success is currently largely dependent on the performance, retention and abilities of our directors, officers, employees and management. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. There is no assurance that we can maintain the services of our directors, officers, employees or other qualified personnel required to operate our business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us and our prospects. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to meet the needs of our anticipated growth, and the failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 21 Competition for additional qualified management is intense, and we may be unable to attract and retain additional key personnel, or to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms. Management personnel are currently limited and they may be unable to manage our expansion successfully and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not entered into non-competition agreements. As the business is substantially dependent upon the directors, executive officers and consultants, the lack of non-competition agreements poses a significant risk in the event such persons were to resign or be terminated from such positions. Under such circumstances, such persons may provide confidential information and key contacts to competitors and we may have difficulties in preventing the disclosure of such information. Such disclosure would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our directors/senior management are engaged in other businesses. Potential conflicts of interest and other obligations of management could interfere with corporate operations. Some of our directors and officers are engaged and will continue to be engaged in additional businesses, and situations may arise where these directors and officers could be in direct competition with us. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of applicable policies, regulations and legislation. Some of our directors and officers are or may become directors or officers of other entities engaged in other business ventures. In order to avoid the possible conflict of interest which may arise between the directors’ and officers’ duties to us and their duties to the other entities they are involved, our directors and officers have been advised as follows by us: participation in other business ventures offered to the directors or officers should be allocated between the various entities and on the basis of prudent business judgment and the relative financial abilities and needs of such entities to participate; no commissions or other extraordinary consideration will be paid to such directors and officers; and business opportunities formulated by or through other entities in which the directors and officers are involved should not be offered to us except on the same or better terms than the basis on which they are offered to third party participants. As a result of their other business endeavors, our directors and officers may not be able to devote sufficient time to our business affairs, which may negatively affect our ability to conduct ongoing operations and to generate revenues. In addition, our management may periodically be interrupted or delayed as a result of our officers’ other business interests. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We are incorporated in the province of British Columbia, Canada under the British Columbia Business Corporations Act. Some of our directors are residents of Canada, and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of our common shares to affect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends. We have not declared any dividends since incorporation and do not anticipate that we will do so in the foreseeable future. Our present policy is to retain all available funds for use in our development, operations and expansion of our business. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that the board of directors considers relevant. Accordingly, investors will only see a return on their investment if the value of our common shares appreciates. Dilution through outstanding common share options could adversely affect our shareholders. Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees and consultants, we have granted to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other shareholders may be diluted. As of June 30, 2012, there are 4,331,000 common share purchase options outstanding, which, if exercised, would result in an additional 4,331,000 common shares being issued and outstanding. 22 Future sales of our securities in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and our ability to continue to raise funds in new stock offerings. It is likely that we will sell common shares or securities exercisable or convertible into common shares in order to finance our planned exploration and development activities. Future sales of substantial amounts of our securities in the public or private markets would dilute our existing shareholders and potentially adversely affect the trading prices of our common shares, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of securities. Alternatively, we may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require us to make substantial interest and capital payments which could adversely affect our business and future growth potential. Price volatility of our publicly traded securities could adversely affect investor’s portfolios. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in price will not occur. It may be anticipated that any quoted market for the common shares will be subject to market trends and conditions generally, notwithstanding any potential success we have in creating revenues, cash flows or earnings. The price of our common shares has been subject to price and volume volatility in the past and will likely continue to be subject to such volatility in the future. We likely constituted a "passive foreign investment company" during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012, which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. investors in our common shares should be aware that we believe that we were classified as a PFIC during the tax year ended June 30, 2012, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, we expect that we will be a PFIC for the current fiscal year. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on our common shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective "qualified electing fund" election (“QEF Election”) or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF Election generally must report on a current basis its share of our net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which we are a PFIC, whether or not we distribute any amounts to our shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a qualified electing fund, or that we will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders are required to report under the QEF Election rules, in the event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. federal alternative minimum, U.S. federal estate and gift, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 