Risk Factors We may be unable to pay dividends. Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy to pay a variable quarterly dividend equal to our Cash Available for Distribution from the previous quarter, subject to any reserves the board of directors may from time to time determine are required. Cash Available for Distribution represents our net income (loss) plus depreciation and amortization, unrealized losses from derivatives, non-cash items and any write-offs or other non-recurring items less unrealized gains from derivatives. The amount of Cash Available for Distribution principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon, among other things: • the cyclicality in the spot tanker market; • the rates we obtain from our spot charters and time charters; • the price and level of production of, and demand for, crude oil; • the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the number of off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for drydocking of our vessels; • delays in the delivery of any newbuilding vessels; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of Cash Available for Distribution also will depend upon other factors, such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining existing vessels and acquiring new vessels, which we expect will be substantial; • our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit agreements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; and • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors, including reserves for working capital and other matters. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors and compliance with the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands. We depend significantly upon spot charters and any decrease in spot-charter rates may adversely affect our earnings and our ability to pay dividends. Our fleet is comprised of nine double-hull Aframax tankers and two double-hull Suezmax tankers. As of June 1, 2009, four of these vessels were operating in the spot market through participation in pooling arrangements managed by subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation. In addition, we may employ in the spot market any additional vessels that we may acquire in the future or existing vessels upon the expiration of related time charters. Although the number of vessels in our fleet that participates in the spot market will vary from time to time, we anticipate that a significant portion of our fleet will participate in this market. As a result, our financial performance will be significantly affected by conditions in the oil tanker spot market and only our vessels that operate under fixed-rate time charters may, during the period such vessels operate under such time charters, provide a fixed source of revenue to us. The spot market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and traveling unladen to pick up cargo. In the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Future spot rates may decline significantly and may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot market to operate profitably or for us to pay dividends. We may hedge our exposure to the spot market’s volatility by entering into financial instruments such as freight forward agreements with respect to one or more of our tankers. This hedging technique, which would guarantee minimum revenues for the tankers subject to the agreements, could limit our profits during periods of rising spot-charter rates. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates, which may adversely affect our earnings. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. If the tanker market is depressed, our earnings and Cash Available for Distribution may decrease. Our exposure to industry business cycles is more acute because of our exposure to the spot market, which is more volatile than the tanker industry generally. Our ability to operate profitably in the spot market and to recharter our other vessels upon the expiration or termination of their charters will depend upon, among other factors, economic conditions in the tanker market. 7 Table of Contents The factors affecting the supply of and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Key factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products; • supply of oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic conditions; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Key factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental concerns and regulations. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price and the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and in the supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. The continuation of recent economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to grow. The recent economic downturn and financial crisis in the global markets have produced illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If this economic downturn continues, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or bank lending, which may make it more difficult and costly to fund future growth. The decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent economic downturn may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent economic downturn and financial crisis in the global markets may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customer’s inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy and the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our dividend policy. Our dividend policy requires us to distribute all of our Cash Available for Distribution on a quarterly basis, subject to any reserves that our board of directors may determine are required. Accordingly, our growth, if any, may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. In determining the amount of Cash Available for Distribution, our board of directors will consider contingent liabilities, the terms of our credit facilities, our other cash needs and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. We believe that we will generally finance any maintenance and expansion capital expenditures from cash balances or external financing sources (including borrowings under credit facilities and potential debt or equity issuances). To the extent we do not have sufficient cash reserves or are unable to obtain financing for these purposes, our dividend policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which may reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet and we generally expect to finance these maintenance capital expenditures with cash balances or undrawn credit facilities. We anticipate growing our fleet through the acquisition of tankers from third parties or the acquisition of additional tankers, which Teekay Corporation has agreed to offer us, or other tankers we expect Teekay Corporation will offer us from time to time in the future, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Subsequent to our initial public offering, we have acquired two Suezmax tankers from Teekay Corporation. 8 Table of Contents Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • increases in our fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. In addition, maintenance capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Significant maintenance capital expenditures may reduce the amount of any dividends to our stockholders. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally will be required to make significant installment payments for any acquisitions of newbuilding vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to pay dividends may be diminished, our financial leverage could increase or our stockholders’ ownership interest in us could be diluted. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We intend to expand our fleet by acquiring tankers from third parties or from Teekay Corporation, from which we have agreed to acquire an additional Suezmax-class oil tanker prior to August 13, 2009, subject to obtaining acceptable financing, and which has agreed to offer to us prior to June 18, 2010 the right to purchase another Suezmax tanker. We may acquire additional Aframax or Suezmax-class crude tankers or product tankers from Teekay Corporation in the future. Our acquisitions may also include newbuilding vessels (or newbuildings). We generally will be required to make installment payments on any newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically would pay 20% of the purchase price of a tanker upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately three to four years from the order). To fund expansion capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash balances or cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder ownership or dividend dilution. Changes in the oil markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting oil depends upon world and regional oil markets. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, including competition from alternative energy sources. The recent slowdowns of the U.S. and world economies has resulted in reduced consumption of oil products and decreased demand for our vessels and services, which has reduced vessel earnings and may limit our ability to expand our fleet. We depend on Teekay Corporation to assist us in operating our business and competing in our markets, and our business will be harmed if Teekay Corporation fails to assist us. We have entered into a long-term management agreement (or the Management Agreement) with Teekay Tankers Management Services Ltd., a subsidiary of Teekay Corporation (or our Manager), pursuant to which our Manager provides to us commercial, technical, administrative and strategic services, including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by our Manager. Our business will be harmed if our Manager fails to perform these services satisfactorily, if it stops providing these services to us or if it terminates the Management Agreement, as it is entitled to do under certain circumstances. The circumstances under which we are able to terminate the Management Agreement are extremely limited and do not include mere dissatisfaction with our Manager’s performance. In addition, upon any termination of the Management Agreement, we may lose our ability to benefit from economies of scale in purchasing supplies and other advantages that we believe our relationship with Teekay Corporation provides. Furthermore, the profitable operation of our tankers that participate in tanker pooling arrangements depends largely on the efforts of the pool managers (which are affiliates of Teekay Corporation), Teekay Corporation’s participation in the pooling arrangements and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. Under the pooling arrangements, the earnings and voyage expenses of all of the vessels in pools are aggregated, or pooled, and divided according to an agreed formula. If Teekay Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: • maximize revenues of our tankers included in the pooling arrangements; • acquire new tankers or obtain new time charters; • renew existing time charters upon their expiration; 9 Table of Contents • successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. The operation of a significant number of our tankers in the Teekay Pool and Gemini Pool could limit our earnings. As of June 1, 2009, three of our Aframax tankers and one of our Suezmax tankers operated in, and generated revenues to us through participation in, an Aframax tanker pooling arrangement (the Teekay Pool) and a Suezmax tanker pooling arrangement (the Gemini Pool), respectively, each managed by subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation. Pooling arrangements are designed to spread the costs and risks associated with commercial management of vessels and to share the net revenues earned by all of the vessels in the pool. Although the net revenues are apportioned based on the actual earning days each vessel is available and, with respect to the Teekay Pool, the relative performance capabilities of each vessel as well, a pool may include vessels that do not perform as well in actual operation as our vessels. As a result, our share of the net pool revenues may be less than what we could earn operating our vessels independently. The removal of any vessels from the Teekay Pool, Gemini Pool, or any other pooling arrangement may adversely affect our operating results and ability to pay dividends. We and Teekay Corporation have each committed to include in the Teekay Pool all of our and its respective Aframax-class crude tankers that are less than 15 years old and employed in the spot market or operate pursuant to time charters of less than 90 days. Participants in the Gemini Pool, including Teekay Corporation and third parties, have each agreed to procure to include in the pool certain qualifying Suezmax-class crude tankers of the pool participants and their respective affiliates, including us, that operate in the spot market or pursuant to time charters of less than one year. If we or Teekay Corporation remove vessels in the Teekay Pool or the Gemini Pool to operate under longer-term time charters, the benefits to us of the pooling arrangements could diminish. In addition, the European Union is in the process of substantially reforming the way it regulates traditional agreements for maritime services from an antitrust perspective. These changes may impose new restrictions on the way pools are operated or may prohibit pooling arrangements altogether. If for any reason our vessels, Teekay Corporation’s vessels, or any third party vessels cease to participate in the Teekay Pool, the Gemini Pool or another pooling arrangement, or if the pooling arrangements are significantly restricted, we may not achieve the benefits intended by pool participation and our results of operations and ability to pay dividends could be harmed. Our failure to renew or replace fixed-rate charters could cause us to trade the related vessels in the spot market, which could adversely affect our operating results and make them more volatile. As of June 1, 2009, seven of our tankers operated under fixed-rate time-charter contracts, two of which expire in 2009, one in 2010, three in 2011 and one in 2012. If upon their scheduled expiration or any early termination we are unable to renew or replace fixed-rate charters on favorable terms, if at all, or if we choose not to renew or replace these fixed-rate charters, we may employ the vessels in the volatile spot market. Increasing our exposure to the spot market, particularly during periods of unfavorable market conditions, could harm our results of operations and make them more volatile. Our vessels operate in the highly competitive international tanker market. The operation of oil tankers and transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products are extremely competitive businesses. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies and independent tanker companies, some of which have substantially greater financial strength and capital than do we or Teekay Corporation. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price and the location, size, age, condition of the tanker and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. Our competitive position may erode over time. We may not be able to grow or to manage our growth effectively. One of our principal strategies is to continue to grow by expanding our operations and adding vessels to our fleet. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include our ability to: • identify suitable tankers or shipping companies for acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrate successfully any acquired tankers or businesses with our existing operations; and • obtain required financing for our existing and any new operations. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or Teekay Corporation, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any tankers or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our financial condition and performance. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flows sufficient to justify the investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; 10 Table of Contents • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flows, liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our tankers operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in tanker demand and, therefore, in spot-charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the northern hemisphere but weaker in the summer months as a result of lower oil consumption in the northern hemisphere and refinery maintenance. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns during the winter months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling, which historically has increased oil price volatility and oil trading activities in the winter months. As a result, revenues generated by the tankers in our fleet have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and stronger in our fiscal quarters ended March 31 and December 31. Delays in deliveries of any newbuildings could harm our operating results. The delivery of any newbuilding that we may order could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues related to the vessel. The completion and delivery of newbuildings could be delayed because of: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • an inability to finance the construction of the vessels; or • an inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is significantly delayed, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline substantially, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing or our operating results. Vessel values for oil tankers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors. Vessel values may decline substantially from existing levels, as they have done as a result of the recent global economic crisis. If operation of a tanker is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a chartered tanker at attractive rates upon charter termination, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Inability to dispose of vessels at a reasonable value could result in a loss on their sale and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, one of our credit facilities contains loan-to-value financial covenants tied to the value of the two vessels that collateralize this credit facility. Significant decline in the market values of these tankers may require prepayments to avoid a default under this credit facility. Further, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Under our Management Agreement, we must reimburse our Manager for vessel operating expenses (including crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lube oils and communication expenses), and in addition for spot or voyage charters, voyage expenses (including bunker fuel expenses, port fees, cargo loading and unloading expenses, canal tolls, agency fees and conversions). These expenses depend upon a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our or our Manager’s control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to fuel, insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing and may increase in the future. Increases in any of these costs would decrease our earnings and may decrease the amount of any dividends to our stockholders. 11 Table of Contents We are unable to quantify in advance the amount of fees we will pay under our Management Agreement, which vary from period to period. We are unable to quantify in advance the fees for services provided to us under our Management Agreement because the payment amounts due and the particular amounts or mix of services to be provided under that agreement are based upon costs of our Manager and based on the revenues earned in the pools and from time charters. The aggregate amount of these fees varies from period to period, which affects the amount of our Cash Available for Distribution. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying dividends. As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated debt was approximately $328.8 million and an additional $45.7 million was available to us under our $343.0 million revolving credit facility. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our revolving credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, business opportunities and dividends to our stockholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility, term loan and in any of our future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements may restrict our ability to: • pay dividends; • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • grant liens on our assets; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate further, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under financing agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans. Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us from paying dividends. The payment of principal and interest on our debt reduces the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. In addition, our revolving credit facility prohibits and other financing agreements may prohibit the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; • breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to vessels securing the facility; 12 Table of Contents • breach of certain financial covenants; • failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; • default under other indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency events; • failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; • a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and • a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to economic instability, increased costs and disruption of our business. Terrorist attacks and the current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, resulting in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines and oil fields could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking, or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil to be shipped by us could disrupt the spot market in which our tankers operate and entitle customers to terminate our time charters, which would harm our cash flows and business. Operations outside of the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we engage in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, including by reducing the levels of demand for oil and related marine transportation services. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from shipping oil from politically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have directly and indirectly resulted in attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where we operate or where we may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business or our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries as a result of terrorist attacks, hostilities or otherwise, may limit trading activities with countries where our vessels operate, which could also harm our business and ability to pay dividends. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which would most likely occur during a war or a national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our cash flows and financial results. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of product or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical or electrical failures; • grounding, capsizing, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or damage to the environment and natural resources; • delays in the delivery of cargo; 13 Table of Contents • loss of revenues from charters; • liabilities or costs to recover any spilled oil or other petroleum products and to restore the eco-system where the spill occurred; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our vessels or result from our operations. The operation of oil tankers is inherently risky. All risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid by insurance. In addition, none of our vessels is insured against loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations our Manager may be required to make additional payments (which we are required to reimburse) over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. Our Manager may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed the insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than existing coverage. The shipping industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit operations and increase expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (or OPA 90), for instance, allows for potentially unlimited liability for owners, operators and bareboat charterers for oil pollution and related damages in U.S. waters, which include the U.S. territorial sea and the 200-nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States, without regard to fault of such owners, operators and bareboat charterers. OPA 90 expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Similarly, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969, as amended, which has been adopted by many countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. In addition, in complying with OPA 90, regulations of the International Maritime Organization (or IMO), European Union directives and other existing laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, ship-owners may incur significant additional costs in meeting new maintenance and inspection requirements, in developing contingency arrangements for potential spills and in obtaining insurance coverage. Various jurisdictions and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (or EPA) have recently adopted regulations governing the management of ballast water to prevent the introduction of non-indigenous species considered to be invasive. The EPA’s new ballast water treatment and other ballast water obligations will increase the cost of operating our vessels in United States waters. 14 Table of Contents Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet or in the Teekay Pool or the Gemini Pool for claims relating to another of our ships. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in fluctuations in our operating results. Our primary economic environment is the international shipping market, which utilizes the U.S. Dollar as its functional currency. Consequently, virtually all of our revenues and the majority of our expenses are in U.S. Dollars. However, we incur certain voyage expenses, vessel operating expenses, and general and administrative expenses in foreign currencies, the most significant of which are the Canadian Dollar, Euro, British Pound and Norwegian Kroner. This partial mismatch in revenues and expenses could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies. Many seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of Teekay Corporation’s seafarers that crew our vessels are employed under collective bargaining agreements. Teekay Corporation may become subject to additional labor agreements in the future. Teekay Corporation may suffer labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. The collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or biannually for seafarers. Although these negotiations have not caused labor disruptions in the past, any labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Teekay Corporation may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on Teekay Corporation’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. These costs have continued to increase to date in 2009. If we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any crew cost increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Teekay Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us, and we have agreed that Teekay Corporation may pursue business opportunities that may be attractive to both it and us. Teekay Corporation may compete with us and is not contractually restricted from doing so. In our articles of incorporation and in a contribution, conveyance and assumption agreement with Teekay Corporation, we have renounced business opportunities that may be attractive to both Teekay Corporation and us in favor of Teekay Corporation, which may strengthen Teekay Corporation’s ability to compete with us. Our Aframax tankers that operate in the spot market and Teekay Corporation’s Aframax tankers that operate in the spot market or pursuant to time charters of less than 90 days are part of the Teekay Pool. One of our Suezmax tankers and certain Suezmax tankers of Teekay Corporation currently participate in the Gemini Pool. These pooling arrangements are managed by Teekay Corporation subsidiaries. When operated in a pool, chartering decisions are made by the pool manager and vessel earnings are based on a formula designed to allocate the pool’s earnings to vessel owners based on actual on-hire performance of the vessels they contributed and, with respect to the Teekay Pool, attributes of the vessels rather than amounts actually earned by those vessels. If we, Teekay Corporation or its affiliates terminate the pooling arrangements in which we participate pursuant to the terms thereof or if vessels of Teekay Corporation or us cease operating in the pooling arrangements for any other reason, our tankers may compete with other vessels owned or operated by Teekay Corporation to provide crude oil transportation services. In addition, we may compete with Teekay Corporation in seeking to charter any vessels in our fleet under fixed-rate time charters, whether upon the expiration or early termination of existing time charters or otherwise. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager do not devote all of their time to our business, which may hinder our ability to operate successfully. Our executive officers and the officers of our Manager are involved in other Teekay Corporation business activities, which may result in their spending less time than is appropriate or necessary to manage our business successfully. 15 Table of Contents Our executive officers and directors and the executive officers and directors of our Manager have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit them to favor interests of other Teekay Corporation affiliates above our interests and those of our Class A common stockholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between Teekay Corporation, our Manager and their affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our stockholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, Teekay Corporation or our Manager may favor their own interests and the interests of their affiliates over our interests and those of our stockholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • our Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and certain of our directors also serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Corporation or our Manager, and we have limited their fiduciary duties regarding corporate opportunities that may be attractive to both Teekay Corporation and us; • our Manager advises our board of directors about the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common stock and cash reserves, each of which can affect the amount of any dividends to our stockholders and the amount of the performance fee payable to our Manager under the Management Agreement; • our executive officers and those of our Manager do not spend all of their time on matters related to our business; and • our Manager will advise us of costs incurred by it and its affiliates that it believes are reimbursable by us. The fiduciary duties of certain of our officers and directors may conflict with their duties as officers or directors of Teekay Corporation and its affiliates. Our officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our stockholders. However, our Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and all of our non-independent directors also serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Corporation, our Manager, the general partner of Teekay LNG Partners L.P. and the general partner of Teekay Offshore Partners L.P. (both of which are controlled by Teekay Corporation), and, as a result, have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Teekay Corporation and its affiliates in a manner beneficial to such entities and their stockholders or partners, as the case may be. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Teekay Corporation, our Manager, Teekay LNG Partners L.P. or Teekay Offshore Partners L.P., on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. Our Manager has rights to terminate the Management Agreement and, under certain circumstances, could receive substantial sums in connection with such termination; however, even if our board of directors or our stockholders are dissatisfied with our Manager, there are limited circumstances under which we can terminate the Management Agreement. Our Management Agreement has an initial term through December 31, 2022 and will automatically renew for subsequent five-year terms provided that certain conditions are met. Our Manager has the right after December 18, 2012 to terminate the Management Agreement with 12 months’ notice. Our Manager also has the right to terminate the Management Agreement after a dispute resolution process if we have materially breached the Management Agreement. The Management Agreement will terminate upon the sale of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party, our liquidation or after any change of control of our company occurs. If the Management Agreement is terminated as a result of an asset sale, our liquidation or change of control, then our Manager may be paid a termination fee. Any such payment could be substantial. In addition, our rights to terminate the Management Agreement are limited. Even if we are not satisfied with the Manager’s efforts in managing our business, unless our Manager materially breaches the agreement or experiences certain bankruptcy or change of control events, we have only a limited right to terminate the agreement after 10 years and may not be able to terminate the agreement until the end of the initial 15-year term. If we elect to terminate the Management Agreement at either of these points or at the end of any subsequent renewal term, our Manager will receive a termination fee, which may be substantial. Our Manager could receive a performance fee if our Gross Cash Available for Distribution exceeds a certain incentive threshold, which would reduce the amount of dividends to our stockholders. If Gross Cash Available for Distribution for a given fiscal year exceeds $3.20 per share of our common stock (subject to adjustment for stock dividends, splits, combinations and similar events, and based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the year) (or the Incentive Threshold), our Manager generally will be entitled to payment of a performance fee equal to 20% of all Gross Cash Available for Distribution for such year in excess of the Incentive Threshold. Although the performance fee is payable on an annual basis, we accrue any amounts expected to be payable in respect of the performance fee on a quarterly basis. Accordingly, dividends to our stockholders in any quarter may be reduced. Gross Cash Available for Distribution represents Cash Available for Distribution before giving effect to any deduction for performance fees payable to our Manager and reduced by the amount of any reserves our board of directors may have taken during the applicable fiscal period that have not already reduced Cash Available for Distribution. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with Teekay Corporation and its affiliates and the superior voting rights of our Class B common stock held by Teekay Corporation limit our Class A common stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has five votes per share and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. However, the voting power of the Class B common stock is limited such that the aggregate voting power of all shares of outstanding Class B common stock can at no time exceed 49% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, voting together as a single class. As of the date of this Annual Report, Teekay Corporation indirectly owns shares of Class A and Class B common stock representing a majority of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Through its ownership of our Class B common stock and of our Manager and other entities that provide services to us, Teekay Corporation has substantial control and influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. In addition, because of this dual-class common stock structure, Teekay Corporation will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even if it comes to own significantly less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This concentrated control limits our Class A common stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our Class A common stockholders do not view as beneficial. 16 Table of Contents We have been incorporated under the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by The Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act (or the Marshall Islands Act). Many of the provisions of the Marshall Islands Act resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States, most notably Delaware. The Marshall Islands Act also provides that it is to be applied and construed to make it uniform with the Delaware General Corporation Law and the laws of other states of the United States with substantially similar legislative provisions. In addition, so long as it does not conflict with the Marshall Islands Act, the non-statutory law (or case law) of the courts of the State of Delaware and of those other states of the United States with substantially similar legislative provisions is adopted as Marshall Islands law. There have been, however, few, if any, court cases in the Marshall Islands interpreting the Marshall Islands Act, in contrast to Delaware, which has a well-developed body of case law interpreting its corporations statutes. Accordingly, we cannot predict whether Marshall Islands courts would reach the same conclusions regarding the Marshall Islands Act as Delaware courts would in respect of the Delaware General Corporation Law. For example, the rights of our stockholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under the Marshall Islands Act are not as clearly established as under judicial precedent in existence in Delaware. As a result, stockholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our officers and directors than would stockholders of a corporation formed in Delaware. Because we are organized under the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Marshall Islands, and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our headquarters are located in Bermuda. In addition, some of our directors and a majority of our officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for stockholders to bring an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if stockholders believe that their rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict them from enforcing a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read Item 4D: “Taxation of the Company” and Item 10: “Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” and “Non-United States Consideration” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our Class A common stock. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders. A foreign entity taxed as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (or PFIC), for U.S. federal income tax purposes if at least 75.0% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income,” or at least 50.0% of the average value of the entity’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” We do not believe that our existing operations would cause us to be deemed a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, as we treat the gross income we derive from our time and voyage charters (as a participant in pooling arrangements or otherwise) as services income, rather than rental income. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our method of operation and, therefore, no assurance can be given that the IRS will accept this position or that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in our assets, income or operations. In addition, a recent decision of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Tidewater Inc. v. United States, No. 08-30268 (5th Cir. Apr. 13, 2009) held that income derived from certain time chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income. However, the issues in this case arose under the foreign sales corporation rules of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (or the Code) and did not concern the PFIC rules. In addition, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) that the time charter income should be treated as services income. As a result, it is uncertain whether the principles of the Tidewater decision would be applicable to our operations. However, if the principles of the Tidewater decision were applicable to all of our operations, we would likely be treated as a PFIC. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. stockholders will face adverse tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those stockholders make certain elections available under the Code, such stockholders would be taxable at ordinary income tax rates rather than the special 15.0% tax rate on our dividends, and would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates plus interest upon certain distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if such distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the stockholder’s holding period. Please read Item 10: “Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification.” The preferential tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income are temporary, and the absence of legislation extending the term would cause our dividends to be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. Certain of our distributions may be treated as qualified dividend income eligible for preferential rates of U.S. federal income tax to U.S. individual stockholders (and certain other U.S. stockholders). In the absence of legislation extending the term for these preferential tax rates or providing for some other treatment, all dividends received by such U.S. taxpayers in tax years beginning on January 1, 2011 or later will be taxed at ordinary graduated tax rates. Please read Item 10: “Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders—Distributions.” 17 Table of Contents We may be subject to taxes, which reduces our Cash Available for Distribution to you. We or some of our subsidiaries may be subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries are organized or operate, reducing the amount of our Cash Available for Distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. For example, if Teekay Corporation holds less than 50.0% of the value of our shares in the future, our U.S. source income may become subject to taxation under Section 883 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. 