ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risks, among others, sometimes may have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company and its subsidiaries’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks not discussed or not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems insignificant may also impact its business and stock price. Demand for products fluctuates significantly due to seasonality. In addition, changes in the weather and consumer disposable income impact demand. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal and consumer buying patterns. Consumer demand in our markets can be reduced by unfavorable weather, a reduction in disposable income, and other factors. We manufacture throughout the year although our sales are concentrated in the second half of our fiscal year. This operating method requires us to anticipate demand of our customers many months in advance. If we overestimate or underestimate demand during a given year, we may not be able to adjust our production quickly enough to avoid excess or insufficient inventories, and that may in turn limit our ability to maximize our potential sales. We have only a limited ability to pass through cost increases in our raw materials to our customers during the year. We generally enter into annual purchasing plans with our largest customers, so our ability to raise our prices during a particular year to reflect increased raw materials costs is limited. A significant portion of our net sales comes from major customers and the loss of any of these customers would negatively impact our financial results. In fiscal 2006, our three largest customers accounted for 33% of our net sales. The loss of a significant portion of the business of one or more of these key customers would significantly impact our net sales and profitability. Changes in environmental or other laws could require extensive changes in our operations or to our products. Our operations and products are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials and health and safety matters. New engine emission regulations are being phased in between 2000 and 2008 by the federal government and the State of California. We do not expect these changes to have a material adverse effect on us, but we 4 cannot be certain that these or other proposed changes in applicable laws or regulations will not adversely affect our business or financial condition in the future. Foreign economic conditions and currency rate fluctuations can reduce our sales. In fiscal 2006, we derived approximately 21% of our net sales from international markets, primarily Europe. Weak economic conditions in Europe could reduce our sales and currency fluctuations could adversely affect our sales or profit levels in U.S. dollar terms. Actions of our competitors could reduce our sales or profits. Our markets are highly competitive and we have a number of significant competitors in each market. Competitors may reduce their costs, lower their prices or introduce innovative products that could hurt our sales or profits. In addition, our competitors may focus on reducing our market share to improve their results. Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could harm our business. A portion of our workforce is currently represented by labor unions. In addition, we may from time to time experience union organizing activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in loss of business. In addition, union activity could result in higher labor costs, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. Failure to successfully integrate acquisitions could adversely impact our results. The integration process of acquisitions could disrupt the activities of our business and require, among other things, coordination of administrative and other functions. If we fail to overcome these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with acquisitions, our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position could suffer. We have approximately $383.3 million of long-term debt, in addition to the seasonal borrowings we incur under our working capital facilities. This level of debt could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by the indentures for the notes and our other credit agreements could have important consequences, including the following: • we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations; • we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing; • some or all of the debt under our current or future revolving credit facilities will be at a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; • we will be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. The terms of the indentures for the senior notes do not fully prohibit us from incurring substantial additional debt in the future and our revolving credit facilities permit additional borrowings, subject to certain conditions. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on the outstanding 8.875% senior notes, the 7.725% senior notes, the variable rate term notes, the credit facilities and other debt primarily from our operations. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that the money we earn will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt 5 agreements, including the revolving credit facilities and our indentures, may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. We are substantially restricted by the terms of the outstanding senior notes and our other debt, which could adversely affect us. The indentures relating to the senior notes and our revolving credit agreements each include a number of significant financial and operating restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. These covenants include, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or to make certain other restricted payments; • incur indebtedness or issue preferred shares; • create liens; • make loans or investments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; • consolidate, merge, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • dispose of assets or the proceeds of sales of our assets. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and impose a maximum leverage ratio. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under the indentures governing the senior notes and our revolving credit facilities could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. 