ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations and the trading price of our common shares, which may decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks. We have a history of losses and will require additional financing to fund our exploration activities and, if warranted, future development and production efforts. Failure to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation and could cast uncertainty on our ability to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our net loss was $22.2 million. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2013 was $99.4 million. At December 31, 2013, our cash position was $23.9 million, and our working capital position was $22.6 million. We have no revenues from operations, and we anticipate we will have no operating revenues until we place the Bear Lodge REE Project into production. Our Bear Lodge REE Project is currently in the exploration stage as defined under U.S. GAAP. We do not have sufficient funds to complete feasibility studies, permitting, development and construction at the Bear Lodge REE Project. We will be required to raise additional funding through equity sales, asset sales in the form of joint venture relationships, debt instruments and/or alternative means of funding. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of feasibility studies, process test work, development and/or production at our Bear Lodge REE Project. We cannot be certain that additional capital or other types of financing will be available if needed or that, if available, the terms of such financing will be favorable or acceptable to us. Future financings may cause dilution to our shareholders. Our ability to arrange additional financing in the future will depend, in part, on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance and the economic attractiveness of our Bear Lodge REE Project. We are an exploration stage company and have no history of producing mineral products from our properties. Any future revenues and profits are uncertain. We have no history of mining or refining any mineral products, and our Bear Lodge REE Project is not currently producing. There can be no assurance that the Bear Lodge REE Project or any properties that we may acquire in the future will be successfully developed, placed into production, produce minerals in commercial quantities or otherwise generate operating earnings. Advancing properties from the exploration stage into development and commercial production requires significant capital and time and will be subject to further feasibility studies, permitting requirements and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads and related works and infrastructure. We will continue to incur losses until our mining activities successfully reach commercial production levels and generate sufficient revenue to fund continuing operations. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue from any source, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues or profits, our shareholders might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common shares. The planned development of our Bear Lodge REE Project involves numerous uncertainties that could affect the feasibility or profitability of such project. Mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the exploration and development phases before production is possible. The economic feasibility of exploration and development projects is based on many factors such as: · completion of definitive feasibility studies to further verify Mineral Resources, establish Mineral Reserves and commercial viability; · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of further exploration, preparing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; · securing a commercially viable sales outlet for our products; · the availability and costs of drill equipment and skilled labor, as required; 15 · the availability and cost of appropriate processing and/or refining arrangements, if required; · compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; · the availability of funds to finance exploration, development and construction activities, as warranted; · future prices for rare earth minerals; · potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups or local groups or inhabitants that may delay or prevent development activities; · potential increases in exploration, construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials and supplies; · potential shortages of mineral processing, construction and other facilities-related equipment and supplies; and · the ability to attract and retain talent for development and operation of the project. It is common in exploration programs and in development, construction and mine start-up to experience unexpected problems and delays. Accordingly, our activities may not result in profitable mining operations, and we may not succeed in establishing mining operations or profitably producing REE products at our Bear Lodge REE Project. We are preparing an updated PFS on our Bear Lodge REE Project that will include project economics using the most recent Mineral Resource information and our process technology, and the results of this updated PFS are uncertain. We expect to report an updated PFS in the first half of 2014 that will include the most recent Mineral Resource information and reflect our process technology. This will update our prior PFS, dated April 13, 2012 and our technical report dated June 26, 2013. The results of this study are uncertain and may indicate project economics that are less favorable than previously reported. We cannot ensure that the results will support a DFS based upon the same inputs. As a result, we may need to update our processing technology and project development plan to enhance economics and further study aspects of the Bear Lodge REE Project. This could result in significant additional delays and expense and could make financing efforts with respect to such efforts more difficult. Our growth depends on the exploration, permitting, development and operation of our Bear Lodge REE Project, which is our only rare earth project. Our only rare earth exploration project at this time is our Bear Lodge REE Project. Our continued viability is based on successfully implementing our strategy, including completion of a DFS, permitting and construction of a mine and processing facilities in an expected timeframe. If we are unable to implement our strategy or in the event of the imposition of significant additional regulatory burdens or delays or a significant deterioration of the market for rare earth products, our ability to maintain a sustainable or profitable business would be materially adversely affected. Increased costs could affect our ability to bring our projects into production and, once in production, to be profitable. We have estimated the capital costs required to bring the Bear Lodge REE Project into commercial production in our PFS, dated April 13, 2012. Our updated PFS may suggest that our actual costs may be higher than we presently anticipate, which could make it more difficult to finance the project or to successfully establish mining operations at the Bear Lodge REE Project. We anticipate that our future operating costs at the Bear Lodge REE Project will vary from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as oil, gas, acid, steel, rubber and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production less profitable or not profitable at all. A material increase in costs could also impact our ability to commence or maintain future development or mining operations. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth products. Because our primary focus currently is the advancement of the Bear Lodge REE Project, changes in demand for, and the market price of, REE products could significantly affect our ability to develop and finance the Bear Lodge REE Project or eventually attain commercial production and profitability. The value and price of our common shares may 16 be adversely affected by declines in the prices of REE products. REE product prices may fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies on the world market, global and regional supply and demand for REE products, and the political and economic conditions of countries that produce REE. As a result of the recent global economic crisis, REE prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009. REE prices increased significantly during 2010 and most of 2011 and then again experienced declines in 2012 and 2013. Protracted periods of low prices for REE products could significantly reduce our ability to develop the Bear Lodge REE Project or, if we attain commercial production, to maintain operations. Demand for REE products is impacted by demand for downstream products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power equipment and other clean technology products, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronics industries. Lack of growth in these markets could adversely affect the demand for REE products, which would have a material adverse effect on our Bear Lodge REE Project and our business. In contrast, periods of high REE prices are generally beneficial to us; however, strong REE prices, as well as real or perceived disruptions in the supply of REE, also create economic pressure to identify or create non-REE alternate technologies that ultimately could depress future long-term demand for REE products, and at the same time may incentivize development of otherwise marginal mining properties. For example, automobile manufacturers have previously announced plans to develop motors for electric and hybrid cars that do not require REE products due to concerns about the available supply of rare earths. If the automobile industry or other industries reduce their reliance on rare earth products, the resulting change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, our stock price would likely decline, and this could also impair our ability to obtain capital needed for our Bear Lodge REE Project and our ability to find purchasers for our products at prices acceptable to us. An increase in the global supply of rare earth products, dumping and/or predatory pricing by our competitors may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital, develop our Bear Lodge REE Project or operate profitably. The pricing and demand for REE products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including growth of economic development and the global supply and demand for REE products. REE supply markets continue to be dominated by production from China, which produced an estimated 86% of the global REE production in 2013. China also dominates the manufacture of metals, NdFeB magnets and other products from rare earths. The threat of increased competition may lead our competitors to engage in predatory pricing behavior or manipulation of the available supply of REEs. Any increase in the amount of rare earth products exported from other nations and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of potential market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profitability. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to compete effectively against our future competitors. The success of our business may depend, in part, on the establishment of new uses and markets for rare earth products. The success of our business may depend, in part, on the establishment of new markets by us or third parties for certain rare earth products. Although we plan to produce rare earth products for use in end products such as NdFeB magnets, which are used in critical existing and emerging technologies such as hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power turbines and compact fluorescent lighting, the success of our business may depend on the creation of new markets and the successful commercialization of REE products in existing and emerging markets. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of any of the foregoing products or applications could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our Bear Lodge REE Project and operate our business. We rely on our proprietary technology and processes to further our Project. We rely on a combination of trade secret protection, nondisclosure and licensing agreements, patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary intellectual property rights. We utilize trade secret protection and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rare earth technology. We have filed two U.S. patent applications which were combined into a single utility patent application filing with the U.S. Patent Office and 17 initiated a Patent Cooperation Treaty Application claiming priority to the U.S. Provisional Applications. These intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. In addition, our intellectual property could be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such case, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and results of operations. The loss of our patents could reduce the value of the related products. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to incorporate our proprietary process technologies, and we could encounter unforeseen problems or costs, or both, in scaling up our technologies to commercial applications. Our Mineral Resource estimates may be inaccurate and any material change in these estimates could affect the viability of placing our property into production. Unless otherwise indicated, our Mineral Resources are based upon estimates made by independent geologists and our internal geologists. When making determinations about whether to advance the Bear Lodge REE Project to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the quantity and grades of mineralization on the property. Until mineralized material is actually mined and processed, Mineral Resources and grades of such mineralization must be considered estimates only, which may prove to be unreliable. Because we have not completed a DFS on the Bear Lodge REE Project and have not commenced actual production, mineralization estimates, including Mineral Resource estimates, for the Bear Lodge REE Project may require adjustments or downward revisions. In addition, the grade of material ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated in our Mineral Resource estimates or in future definitive feasibility studies. Our Mineral Resource estimates have been determined based on assumed cut-off grades that depend upon estimated RE prices, recovery rates and project operating costs. Any significant change in cut-off grades could reduce our estimates of mineralization, or the amount of mineralization to be extracted, and could have a material adverse effect on our share price and the value of our Bear Lodge REE Project. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, including permitting, licensing and approval processes that affect our operations and impact the cost of conducting our business. Our current and future activities will be governed by laws and regulations, including: · laws and regulations governing mineral concession acquisition, prospecting, development, mining and production; · laws and regulations related to exports, taxes and fees; · labor standards and regulations related to occupational health and mine safety; · environmental standards and regulations related to waste disposal, toxic and radioactive substances, land use and environmental protection; and · other matters. We believe we hold, or are in the process of obtaining, all necessary licenses and permits to carry on the activities that we are currently conducting or propose to conduct under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain the current or planned exploration, development and mining activities including constructing mines and/or processing facilities and commencing operations at the Bear Lodge REE Project. In addition, if we proceed to production on the Bear Lodge REE Project or any other properties that we may acquire in the future, we must obtain and comply with permits and licenses that may contain specific operating conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that we will be able to comply with any such conditions. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses may be prohibitive and could delay planned exploration and 18 development activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reductions in levels of production at producing properties, or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. Our operations are subject to environmental risks and compliance with environmental regulations that are increasing and costly. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and future changes in these laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays and may cause material changes or delays in our current and planned operations and future activities. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our Bear Lodge REE Project or some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. Examples of some of the current U.S. federal laws which may affect our operations and may impact future business and operations include, but are not limited to, the following: · The National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare a detailed statement known as an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will, and other federal agencies and any interested third parties can, review and comment on the scoping of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. We are required to undertake the NEPA process for the Bear Lodge Property permitting. The NEPA process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate its potential environmental impacts that can in turn impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project or the ability to construct or operate the Bear Lodge Property or other properties entirely. · The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”), pursuant to its authority under the Atomic Energy Act, oversees the regulatory framework governing the control of mining and processing of rare earth elements that contain uranium and thorium, including issuance of licenses for source material or processing involving concentrations of uranium or thorium that exceeds 0.05% by weight. If a proposed action, including waste generation, results in materials with concentrations of uranium and thorium that equal or exceed 0.05% by weight, a license to possess may be required. We are required to follow the regulations pertaining to license application for the Bear Lodge REE Project. The licensing process, including a NEPA review relating to the NRC licensing, may cause delays or result in changes to the project design to mitigate impacts as required under the licensing issuance. · The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (“CERCLA”), and comparable state statutes, impose strict joint and several liabilities on current and former owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at such sites. The government has filed claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages. Neighboring landowners and other third parties have also filed claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. 19 · The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up of sites and disposal of substances found on exploration, mining and processing sites long after activities on such sites have been completed. · The Clean Air Act, as amended, restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including mining and processing activities. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment that are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or result in additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the regulations. · The Clean Water Act (“CWA”), and comparable state statutes, imposes restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water handling at mining facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. · The Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”) and the Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and/or remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third-party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impact of climate change and various climate change interest groups. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us and/or our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and/or other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the mining or rare earth industries’ potential impacts on climate change could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in precipitation, and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages and changing temperatures. These factors may have an adverse impact on the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. 20 We depend on key personnel, and the absence of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our success is currently largely dependent on the performance, retention and abilities of our directors, officers, management and employees. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. There is no assurance that we can maintain the services of our directors, officers, employees or other qualified personnel required to operate our business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us and our prospects. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to meet the needs of our anticipated growth, and the failure to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Competition for additional qualified management is intense, and we may be unable to attract and retain additional key personnel, or to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms. Management personnel are currently limited, and they may be unable to manage our expansion successfully. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As the business is substantially dependent upon the directors, executive officers and consultants, the lack of non-competition agreements poses a significant risk in the event such persons were to resign or be terminated from such positions. Under such circumstances, such persons may provide confidential information and key contacts to competitors, and we may have difficulties in preventing the disclosure of such information. Such disclosure may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We depend on various supplies and equipment to carry out our exploration and, if warranted, future development and mining operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our planned activities and increase our operating costs and expenses. Mineral exploration and development and mining are potentially dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans. Mineral exploration and development and mining involve various types of risks and hazards, including: · environmental hazards; · power outages; · metallurgical and other processing problems; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · personal injury, flooding, fire, explosions, cave-ins, earthquakes, landslides and rock-bursts; · mineral exploration or mining accidents; · metal losses; · fluctuations in exploration, development and production costs; · labor disputes; · unanticipated variations in grade; · mechanical equipment failure; · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions, and · regulatory curtailments or shutdowns. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production equipment, facilities or other properties, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, may be prohibitively expensive. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business, if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by insurance policies. 21 Mineral exploration and development is highly speculative, and certain inherent exploration risks could have a negative effect on our business. Our long-term success depends on our ability to develop mineral deposits on existing properties and other properties we may acquire, if any, that can then be developed into commercially viable mining operations. Resource exploration is a highly speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Substantial expenditures are required to establish Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by us may be affected by numerous factors that are beyond our control and cannot be accurately predicted, such as market pricing fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets demand and processing equipment, and such other factors such as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. Any one or a combination of these factors may result in our failure to receive an adequate return on our investment capital. The decision to abandon a project may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares and our ability to raise future financing. Title to our Bear Lodge Property may be subject to other claims, or we may lose our interest in our claims, which could affect our property rights and claims. There are risks that title to our Bear Lodge Property may be challenged or impugned. Our Bear Lodge Property is located in the state of Wyoming and may be subject to prior unrecorded agreements, transfers or native land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of our Bear Lodge Property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. The vast majority of the mineral rights to our Bear Lodge Property consist of “unpatented” mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. general mining law. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims can be uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations with which the owner of an unpatented mining claim must comply in order to locate and maintain a valid claim. Also, unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges by third parties or validity contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with not only a complex body of U.S. federal and state statutory, but also administrative and judicial decisions interpreting those statutes and case law. In addition, there may be limitations as to the completeness of public records that determine prior claimants that could impact the validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. Our operations are subject to significant uninsured risks that could negatively impact future profitability as we maintain limited insurance against our operations. The exploration of our Bear Lodge Property entails certain risks including unexpected or unusual operating conditions, such as rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against these risks. Should events such as these arise, they could reduce or eliminate our assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and/or a decline in the value of our assets or common shares. We expect to maintain general liability, director and officer insurance, and some insurance against our assets but not with expectation of full replacement value. We may decide to update or amend our insurance portfolio in the future, if coverage is available at economically viable rates. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding and/or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. The mining industry is intensely competitive. Significant competition exists for the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing REE, gold or other metals. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because we must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than we have. We may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in our efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. 22 Competition for exploration resources at all levels can be very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs, mining equipment and production equipment. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding, acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future or attract or retain key personnel or outside technical resources. Mineral operations are subject to market factors outside of our control that could negatively impact our business or operations. The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including market forces, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, imports, exports, and overall supply and demand for rare earths. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on the costs of our operations and if significant enough, reduce the profitability or viability of operations. Land reclamation requirements for our properties may be burdensome and expensive. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies as well as companies with mining operations in order to minimize long-term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: · control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; · treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and · reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance vegetation and land forms. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with the potential future development activities at the Bear Lodge Property, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and future development programs. We have set up a provision for reclamation obligations as currently anticipated for the Bear Lodge Property, as appropriate, but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry and our business. Members of the U.S. Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to (i) impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims, (ii) impose time limits on the effectiveness of plans of operation that may not coincide with mine life, (iii) impose more stringent environmental compliance and reclamation requirements on activities on unpatented mining claims, (iv) establish a mechanism that would allow states, localities and Native American tribes to petition for the withdrawal of identified tracts of federal land from the operation of the U.S. general mining laws, and (v) allow for administrative determinations that mining would not be allowed in situations where undue degradation of the federal lands in question could not be prevented. Although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of a federal royalty or other provisions contained in these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of our unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our ability to operate or our financial performance. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a negative impact on our financial position and results. Certain property interests are subject to foreign currency fluctuations that may adversely affect our financial position and results. We maintain some accounts in Canadian dollars, and thus, any appreciation in the U.S. Dollar against the Canadian Dollar increases the costs of carrying out our operations in the United States. Management may or may not enter into foreign currency contracts from time-to-time to mitigate this risk. Failing to enter into currency contracts, or the risk in the currency contracts themselves, may cause losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. 23 Our directors and senior management may be engaged in other businesses. Potential conflicts of interest and other obligations of management could interfere with corporate operations. Some of our directors, officers and key contractors may be engaged in additional businesses, and situations may arise where our directors, officers and contractors could be in direct competition with us. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of applicable policies, regulations and legislation. Some of our directors and officers are or may become directors or officers of other entities engaged in other business ventures. As a result of their other business endeavors, our directors, officers and contractors may not be able to devote sufficient time to our business affairs, which may negatively affect our ability to conduct ongoing operations and to generate revenues. We are subject to the risk of litigation, the causes and costs of which are not always known. The Company is subject to litigation arising in the normal course of business and may be involved in disputes that may result in litigation. Although we are not aware of any material pending or threatened litigation or of any proceedings known to be contemplated which are, or would be, likely to have a material adverse effect upon us or our operations, taken as a whole, the causes of potential future litigation cannot be known and may arise from, among other things, business activities, environmental and health and safety concerns, share price volatility or failure to comply with disclosure obligations. The results of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty but could include costly damage awards or settlements, fines, and the loss of licenses, concessions or rights, among other things. If the Company is unable to resolve a dispute favorably, either by judicial determination or settlement, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial performance, cash flow and results of operations. We depend upon information technology systems, which are subject to disruption, damage, failure and risks associated with implementation and integration. We depend upon information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. Our information technology systems are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and defects in design. Cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems and network disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We are incorporated in the province of British Columbia, Canada under the British Columbia Business Corporations Act. Some of our directors are residents of Canada, and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of our common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends. We have not declared any dividends since our incorporation and do not anticipate that we will do so in the foreseeable future. Our present policy is to retain all available funds for use in our business development, operations and expansion. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that the board of directors considers relevant. In the absence of dividends, investors will only see a return on their investment if the value of our common shares appreciates. 24 Dilution through outstanding common share options could adversely affect our shareholders. Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees and consultants, we have granted to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other shareholders may be diluted. As of December 31, 2013, there are 4,705,500 common share purchase options outstanding, which, if exercised, would result in an additional 4,705,500 common shares being issued and outstanding which is approximately 10% of our common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013. Future sales of our securities in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares and our ability to continue to raise funds in new stock offerings. It is likely that we will sell common shares or securities exercisable or convertible into common shares in order to finance our planned exploration and development activities. Future sales of substantial amounts of our securities in the public or private markets would dilute our existing shareholders and potentially adversely affect the trading prices of our common shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of securities. Alternatively, we may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require us to make substantial interest and capital payments that could adversely affect our business and future growth potential. Price volatility of our publicly traded securities could adversely affect investors’ portfolios. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced high levels of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. It is likely that continual fluctuations in price will occur. It may be anticipated that any quoted market for the common shares will be subject to market trends and conditions generally, notwithstanding any potential success we have in creating revenues, cash flows or earnings. The price of our common shares has been subject to price and volume volatility in the past and will likely continue to be subject to such volatility in the future. We likely were a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for the period ended December 31, 2013, which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. Investors in our common shares that are U.S. taxpayers (referred to as a U.S. shareholder) should be aware that we believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for the period ended December 31, 2013, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, we expect that we will be a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2014, and may be a PFIC in subsequent years. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide information as to our status as a PFIC and the PFIC status of any subsidiary in which the Company owns more than 50% of such subsidiary’s total aggregate voting power to U.S. shareholders who make a written request for such information. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be subject to a special, highly adverse tax regime with respect to so-called “excess distributions” received on our common shares. Gain realized upon a disposition of our common shares (including upon certain dispositions that would otherwise be tax-free) also will be treated as excess distributions. The portion of any excess distribution, including gains treated as excess distributions, would be allocated ratably to the U.S. shareholder's holding period. The portion allocated to the current year and to prior years before we first became a PFIC would be includible as ordinary income in the current year. The portion allocated to all other prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal rate applicable to ordinary income for each such year (regardless of the U.S. shareholder’s actual marginal rate for that year and without reduction by any losses or loss carryforwards) and would be subject to interest charges to reflect the value of the U.S. income tax deferral. A U.S. shareholder may make a “qualified electing fund” election (“QEF election”) or a “mark-to-market” election with respect to our common shares to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs, but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its pro rata share of our net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which we are a PFIC, whether or not we distribute any amounts to our shareholders. A U.S. shareholder may make a QEF election only if the U.S. shareholder receives certain information (known as a “PFIC annual information statement”) from us annually. We will use commercially reasonable efforts 25 to make available to a U.S. shareholder, upon written request, an accurate PFIC annual information statement for each year in which the Company is a PFIC. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of our common shares over the U.S. shareholder basis therein. Additional special adverse rules also apply to U.S. shareholders who own our common shares if we are a PFIC and have a non-U.S. subsidiary that is also a PFIC. Special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our common stock if we are a PFIC. Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. federal alternative minimum, U.S. federal estate and gift, and U.S. state and local consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our common shares if we are or become a PFIC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 