Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our common stock involves significant risks. If any of the risks discussed in this report occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The risk factors set forth below are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not identified below, may also materially affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Some statements in this report, including statements in the following risk factors, constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” Risks Related to Our Company The employees of our manager have limited experience managing a public company. We became a public company in April 2008 and, as a result, the key employees of our manager, who are also our executive officers, have limited experience managing a public company. This inexperience on the part of our manager and our executive officers increases the risk and uncertainty you face in making an investment in our shares and could have an adverse effect on our operations and our ability to secure public financing. We are dependent upon key employees of our manager, and we may not find suitable replacements if these key personnel are no longer available to us. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the contributions of Messrs. Michael and Benjamin Hough and Messrs. Steele, Gibbs and Boos, whose continued service is not guaranteed, and each of whom would be difficult to replace. Because these key personnel collectively have a substantial amount of experience in the fixed income markets and certain of these key personnel have prior experience managing a mortgage REIT, we depend on their experience and expertise to manage our day-to-day operations and our strategic business direction. In addition, many of these individuals have strong industry reputations, which aid us in identifying and financing investment opportunities. The loss of the services of these key personnel could diminish our relationships with lenders, and industry personnel and harm our business and our prospects. We cannot assure you that these individuals can be replaced with equally skilled and experienced professionals. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest The management agreement between us and our manager was not negotiated on an arms-length basis and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it was negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. Because our executive officers and two of our directors are also officers and owners of our manager, the management agreement was not negotiated on an arms-length basis, and we did not have the benefit of arms-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. As a result, the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as an arms-length agreement. Furthermore, because our executive officers and two of our directors are also officers and owners of our manager, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our manager. Termination by us of our management agreement with our manager without cause is difficult and costly. The initial term of our management agreement expires on November 5, 2010. The agreement is automatically renewed for a one-year term on each anniversary date thereafter unless terminated. Our independent directors review our manager’s performance periodically and, following the initial term, the management agreement may be terminated upon the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our independent directors, or by a vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock, based upon: (1) unsatisfactory performance by our manager that is materially detrimental to us or (2) a determination that the management fees payable to our manager are not fair, subject to our manager’s right to prevent such a termination by accepting a reduction of management fees agreed to by at least two-thirds of our independent directors and our manager. We must provide 180 days’ prior notice of any such termination. Our manager will be paid a termination fee equal to three times the average annual management fee earned by our manager during the two years immediately 7 Table of Contents preceding termination. The termination fee may make it more difficult for us to terminate the management agreement. These provisions increase the cost to us of terminating the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our manager without cause. Our manager may allocate mortgage-related opportunities to ACM, and thus may divert attractive investment opportunities away from us. Each of our executive officers and some of our directors also serve as officers and owners of our manager. Our manager is also the external manager of ACM, a private mortgage REIT with investment objectives that are similar to ours. Furthermore, three of our executive officers, Michael R. Hough, Benjamin M. Hough and William H. Gibbs, Jr. are also executive officers and directors of ACM. Kenneth A. Steele serves as our chief financial officer and also as chief financial officer of ACM. Frederick J. Boos, II serves as our co-chief investment officer and also as chief investment strategist of ACM. Our executive officers, who as of December 31, 2008 collectively and beneficially owned approximately 2.4% of the outstanding common stock of ACM on a fully diluted basis, intend to continue in such capacities with ACM. Most investment opportunities that are suitable for us are also suitable for ACM; therefore, these dual responsibilities create conflicts of interest for these officers in the event they are presented with opportunities that may benefit either us or ACM. Our management agreement requires our manager to allocate investments between us and ACM by determining the entity for which they believe the investment opportunity is most suitable. In making this determination, our manager considers the investment strategy and guidelines of each entity with respect to acquisition of assets, portfolio needs, market conditions, cash flow and other factors that they deem appropriate. However, our manager generally has no obligation to make any specific investment opportunities available to us, and the above mentioned conflicts of interest may result in decisions or allocations of securities that may benefit one entity more than the other. Thus, the executive officers of our manager could direct attractive investment opportunities to ACM instead of to us. Such events could result in us investing in investments that provide less attractive returns, reducing the level of distributions we may be able to pay to our stockholders. Furthermore, in the future our manager may sponsor or provide management services to other investment vehicles with investment objectives that overlap with ours. Accordingly, we may further compete for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with our manager to provide and for the time of its key employees. Our manager and its key employees, who are our executive officers, face competing demands relating to their time and this may adversely affect our operations. We rely on our manager and its employees, including Messrs. Michael and Benjamin Hough and Messrs. Steele, Gibbs and Boos, for the day-to-day operation of our business. Our manager is also the manager of ACM and each of the key employees of our manager are executive officers of ACM. As a result of their interests in ACM, Messrs. Michael and Benjamin Hough and Messrs. Steele, Gibbs and Boos face conflicts of interest in allocating their time among us and ACM. Because our manager has duties to ACM as well as to our company, we do not have the undivided attention of the management team of our manager and our manager faces conflicts in allocating management time and resources between our company and ACM. Further, during turbulent market conditions or other times when we need focused support and assistance from our manager, ACM or other entities for which our manager also acts as an investment manager will likewise require greater focus and attention, placing competing high levels of demand on our manager’s limited resources. In such situations, we may not receive the necessary support and assistance we require or would otherwise receive if we were internally managed or if our manager did not act as a manager for other entities. Our directors have approved broad investment guidelines for our manager and do not approve each investment decision made by our manager; as a result, our manager may cause us to acquire assets that produce investment returns that are below expectations or that result in net operating losses. Our manager is authorized to follow broad investment guidelines. Our directors, including our independent directors, periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment policies. However, our board does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors rely primarily on information provided to them by our manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Our manager has great latitude with the investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. 8 Table of Contents Because our board of directors could change our investment policies without stockholder approval to permit us to invest in investments other than agency securities, we may invest in assets that bear greater credit, interest rate, prepayment or passive investment risks. If market conditions change, our board of directors could change our investment policies without stockholder approval to permit us to invest in investments other than agency securities, such as other investment-grade mortgage assets, other real estate-related investments (which may not be investment grade) that management determines are consistent with our asset allocation policy and with our tax status as a REIT, and the securities of other REITs. If we acquire investments of lower credit quality, our profitability may decline and we may incur losses if there are defaults on assets underlying those investments or if the rating agencies downgrade the credit quality of those investments. Investing in other REITs involves obtaining interests in real estate-related investments indirectly, which carries several risks, including the following: • returns on our investments are not directly linked to returns on the assets of the REITs in which we invest; • we may have no ability to affect the management, investment decisions or operations of the REITs in which we invest; • prices of publicly-traded securities are likely to be volatile; and • the disposition value of investments is dependent upon general and specific market conditions. Each of these risks could cause the performance of our investments in other REITs to be lower than anticipated, which would adversely impact the overall returns for our portfolio. Our manager’s management fee is payable regardless of our performance. Our manager is entitled to receive a management fee from us that is based on the amount of our equity (as defined in the management agreement), regardless of the performance of our portfolio. For example, we would pay our manager a management fee for a specific period even if we experienced a net loss during the same period. Our manager’s entitlement to substantial nonperformance-based compensation might reduce its incentive to devote its time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our portfolio. This in turn could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business Continued adverse developments in the residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of our agency securities and our ability to borrow against our agency security assets. During the past year, the residential mortgage market in the United States has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that may adversely affect the performance and market value of the mortgage securities in which we invest. Securities backed by residential mortgage loans, or RMBS securities, originated in 2006 and 2007 have experienced a higher and earlier than expected rate of delinquencies. Additionally, other earlier vintages of RMBS securities may not be performing as expected. Many RMBS securities have been downgraded by the rating agencies during the past year and the rating agencies may in the future downgrade RMBS securities. As a result, the market for these securities may be adversely affected for a significant period of time. The increase in delinquencies described above has not been limited to “subprime” mortgage loans, which are made to borrowers with impaired credit. The increase in delinquencies has also affected “Alt-A” mortgage loans, which are made to borrowers with limited documentation, and also “prime” mortgage loans, which are made to borrowers with excellent credit who provide full documentation. During the past year, housing prices and appraisal values in many states have declined or stopped appreciating, after extended periods of significant appreciation. A continued decline or an extended flattening of those values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on residential mortgage loans generally, particularly with respect to second homes and investor properties and with respect to any residential mortgage loans whose aggregate loan amounts (including any subordinate liens) are close to or greater than the related property values. 9 Table of Contents Another factor that may in the future contribute to higher delinquency rates is the potential increase in monthly payments on adjustable rate mortgage loans. Borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans may be exposed to increased monthly payments if the related mortgage interest rate adjusts upward from the initial fixed rate or a low introductory rate, as applicable, in effect during the initial period of the mortgage loan to the rate computed in accordance with the applicable index and margin. This increase in borrowers’ monthly payments, together with any increase in prevailing market interest rates, after the initial fixed rate period, may result in significantly increased monthly payments for borrowers with adjustable rate mortgage loans and an increase in default on their obligations. Current market conditions may impair borrowers’ ability to refinance or sell their properties, which may contribute to higher delinquency and default rates. Borrowers seeking to avoid increased monthly payments by refinancing may no longer be able to find available replacement loans at comparably low interest rates. A decline in housing prices may also leave borrowers with insufficient equity in their homes to permit them to refinance. Borrowers who intended to sell their homes or refinance their existing mortgage loans on or before the expiration of the fixed rate periods on their mortgage loans may find that they cannot sell their property for an amount equal to or greater than the unpaid principal balance of their loans or obtain new financing at lower rates. In addition, some mortgage loans may include prepayment premiums that may further inhibit refinancing. The servicer will have the authority to modify mortgage loans that are in default, or for which default is reasonably foreseeable, if such modifications are in the best interests of the holders of the mortgage securities and such modifications are done in accordance with the terms of the relevant agreements. Loan modifications are more likely to be used when borrowers are less able to refinance or sell their homes due to market conditions, and when the potential recovery from a foreclosure is reduced due to lower property values. A significant number of loan modifications could result in a significant reduction in cash flows to the holders of the mortgage securities on an ongoing basis. Over the past year, a number of originators of mortgage loans have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in many cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings. These difficulties have resulted in part from declining markets for their mortgage loans as well as from claims for repurchases of mortgage loans previously sold under provisions that require repurchase in the event of early payment defaults or for breaches of representations regarding loan quality. In addition, a rising interest rate environment and declining real estate values may decrease the number of borrowers seeking or able to refinance their mortgage loans, which would result in a decrease in overall originations. Various federal, state and local regulatory authorities have taken or proposed actions that could hinder the ability of the servicer to foreclose promptly on defaulted mortgage loans. Any such actions may adversely affect the performance of the loans and the yield on and value of the mortgage securities. Investors should consider that the general market conditions discussed above may adversely affect the market value of the agency securities in which we invest and make it difficult or more expensive for us to borrow against our agency security assets. The federal conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business. The payments we expect to receive on the agency securities in which we invest depend upon a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities and are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Ginnie Mae is part of a U.S. Government agency and its guarantees are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are U.S. Government-sponsored entities, but their guarantees are not backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. Since 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have reported substantial losses and a need for substantial amounts of additional capital. In response to the deteriorating financial condition of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the recent credit market disruption, Congress and the U.S. Treasury undertook a series of actions to stabilize these government-sponsored entities and the financial markets, generally. The Regulatory Reform Act was signed into law on July 30, 2008, and established a new regulator for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac called the Federal Housing Finance Agency, or FHFA, with enhanced regulatory authority over, among other things, the business activities of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the size of their portfolio holdings. On September 7, 2008, FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into federal conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s debt and agency securities. As the conservator of Fannie 10 Table of Contents Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may (1) take over the assets of and operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with all the powers of the stockholders, the directors, and the officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and conduct all business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (2) collect all obligations and money due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (3) perform all functions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (4) preserve and conserve the assets and property of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (5) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. In addition to FHFA becoming the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, (i) the U.S. Treasury and FHFA have entered into preferred stock purchase agreements between the U.S. Department of Treasury and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pursuant to which the U.S. Department of Treasury will ensure that each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac maintains a positive net worth; (ii) the U.S. Department of Treasury has established a new secured lending credit facility which will be available to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Home Loan Banks, which is intended to serve as a liquidity backstop and will be available until December 2009; and (iii) the U.S. Department of Treasury has initiated a temporary program to purchase agency securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Given the highly fluid and evolving nature of these events, it is unclear how our business will be impacted. Although the federal government has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that these credit facilities and other capital infusions will be adequate for their needs. If the financial support is inadequate, these companies could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. Shortly after Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were placed in federal conservatorship, the secretary of the U.S. Treasury suggested that the guarantee payment structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac should be re-examined. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be eliminated or considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes an agency security and could have broad adverse market implications. The size and timing of the federal government’s agency security purchase program is subject to the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, who has indicated that the scale of the program will be based on developments in the capital markets and housing markets. Purchases under this program have already begun, but there is no certainty that the U.S. Treasury will continue to purchase additional agency securities in the future. The U.S. Treasury can hold its portfolio of agency securities to maturity, and, based on mortgage market conditions, may make adjustments to the portfolio. This flexibility may adversely affect the pricing and availability for our target assets. It is also possible that the U.S. Treasury’s commitment to purchase agency securities in the future could create additional demand that would negatively affect the pricing of agency securities that we seek to acquire. The U.S. Treasury could also stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. The U.S. Treasury’s authority to purchase agency securities and to provide financial support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 expires on December 31, 2009. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into federal conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the federal government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the federal government could determine to stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire agency securities from these companies, which would eliminate the major component of our business model. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we expect to receive from agency securities that we seek to acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of agency securities could also negatively affect the pricing of agency securities we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government. Future legislation could further change the relationship 11 Table of Contents between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. Any law affecting these government-sponsored enterprises may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac agency security. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. Difficult conditions in the financial markets, and the economy generally, have caused many lenders, including our own, to suffer substantial losses and may cause us losses related to our agency securities, and there is no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near future. As a result, we may not be able to obtain cost-effective financing. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and the economy generally. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage market and a declining real estate market have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and markets. Dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant asset write-downs by financial institutions, which have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with other institutions and, in some cases, to fail. We rely on the availability of financing to acquire agency securities on a leveraged basis. Institutions from which we seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed residential mortgage loans, real estate-related securities and real estate loans which have declined in value and caused losses as a result of the recent downturn in the markets. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. If these conditions persist, these institutions may become insolvent or tighten their lending standards, which could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. There can be no assurance that the actions taken by the U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of seeking to stabilize the financial markets will achieve the intended effect or benefit our business and further government or market developments could adversely affect us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or EESA, was enacted by the U.S. Congress. The EESA provides the secretary of the U.S. Treasury with the authority to establish a Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on or related to such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before March 14, 2008, as well as any other financial instrument that the secretary of the U.S. Treasury, after consultation with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, determines the purchase of which is necessary to promote financial market stability, upon transmittal of such determination, in writing, to the appropriate committees of the U.S. Congress. The EESA also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. In November 2008, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury announced that following enactment of EESA, the U.S. Treasury had continued to examine the relative benefits of purchasing illiquid mortgage-related assets and had determined that its assessment at the current time was that such purchases are not the most effective way to use TARP funds, but the U.S. Treasury will continue to examine whether targeted forms of asset purchase can play a useful role, relative to other potential uses of TARP resources. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it will initiate a program to purchase $100.0 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $500.0 billion in mortgage-backed securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. The Federal Reserve stated that its actions are intended to reduce the cost and increase the availability of credit for the purchase of houses, which in turn should support housing markets and foster improved conditions in financial markets more generally. The purchases of direct obligations began during the first week of December 2008 and the purchases of mortgage-backed securities began in January 2009. The Federal Reserve’s program to purchase mortgage-backed securities has 12 Table of Contents caused an increase in the price of agency securities, which may negatively impact the net interest margin with respect to agency securities we purchase in the future. There can be no assurance that the EESA will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets. To the extent the markets do not respond favorably to the TARP or the TARP does not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation and such result may have broad adverse market implications. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments, central banks and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what affect, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Mortgage loan modification programs and future legislative action may adversely affect the value of, and the returns, on the agency securities in which we invest. During 2008, the U.S. Government, through the Federal Housing Authority and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, commenced implementation of programs designed to provide homeowners with assistance in avoiding residential mortgage loan foreclosures. The programs may involve, among other things, the modification of mortgage loans to reduce the principal amount of the loans or the rate of interest payable on the loans, or to extend the payment terms of the loans. In addition, members of the U.S. Congress have indicated support for additional legislative relief for homeowners, including an amendment of the bankruptcy laws to permit the modification of mortgage loans in bankruptcy proceedings. These loan modification programs, as well as future legislative or regulatory actions, including amendments to the bankruptcy laws, that result in the modification of outstanding mortgage loans may adversely affect the value of, and the returns on, the agency securities in which we invest. If we are unable to find suitable investments, we may not be able to achieve our investment objectives or pay dividends. The availability of mortgage-related assets meeting our criteria depends upon, among other things, the level of activity and quality of and demand for securities in the mortgage securitization and secondary markets. The market for agency securities depends upon various factors including the level of activity in the residential real estate market, the level of and difference between short-term and long-term interest rates, incentives for issuers to securitize mortgage loans and demand for agency securities by institutional investors. The size and level of activity in the residential real estate lending market depends on various factors, including the level of interest rates, regional and national economic conditions and real estate values. To the extent we are unable to acquire a sufficient volume of mortgage-related assets meeting our criteria, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at spreads above our costs of funds. A disproportionate rise in short-term interest rates as compared to longer-term interest rates may adversely affect our income. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. Because we expect our investments, on average, generally will bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our net assets. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields on the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses. A flat or inverted yield curve may adversely affect agency securities prepayment rates and supply. Our net interest income varies primarily as a result of changes in interest rates as well as changes in interest rates across the yield curve. We believe that when the yield curve is relatively flat, borrowers have an incentive to refinance into hybrid mortgages with longer initial fixed rate periods and fixed rate mortgages, causing our agency securities to experience faster prepayments. In addition, a flatter yield curve generally leads to fixed-rate mortgage rates that are closer to the interest rates available on hybrid and adjustable-rate mortgages, possibly decreasing the supply of agency securities. At times, short-term interest rates may increase and exceed long-term interest rates, 13 Table of Contents causing an inverted yield curve. When the yield curve is inverted, fixed-rate mortgage rates may approach or be lower than hybrid or adjustable-rate mortgage rates, further increasing agency securities prepayments and further negatively impacting agency securities supply. Increases in prepayments on our portfolio will cause our premium amortization to accelerate, lowering the yield on such assets. If this happens, we could experience a decrease in net income or incur a net loss during these periods, which may negatively impact our distributions to stockholders. Interest rate mismatches between our adjustable-rate agency securities and our borrowings used to fund our purchases of these securities may reduce our income during periods of changing interest rates. Historically, we have funded most of our investments in adjustable-rate agency securities with borrowings that have interest rates that adjust more frequently than the interest rate indices and repricing terms of our agency securities. Accordingly, if short-term interest rates increase, our borrowing costs may increase faster than the interest rates on our adjustable-rate securities adjust. As a result, in a period of rising interest rates, we could experience a decrease in net income or a net loss. Our investment strategy focuses on the acquisition of adjustable-rate agency securities. This means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an identified short-term interest rate index. In most cases, the interest rate indices and repricing terms of the agency securities that we acquire and our borrowings will not be identical, thereby potentially creating an interest rate mismatch between our investments and our borrowings. While the historical spread between relevant short-term interest rate indices has been relatively stable, there have been periods when the spread between these indices was volatile. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market and Interest Rate Trends and the Effect on our Portfolio—Interest Rates.” During periods of changing interest rates, these interest rate index mismatches could reduce our net income or produce a net loss, and adversely affect our dividends and the market price of our common stock. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental, monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Interest rate caps on our adjustable-rate agency securities may reduce our income or cause us to suffer a loss during periods of rising interest rates. The mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate securities typically will be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Additionally, we may invest in ARMs with an initial “teaser” rate that will provide us with a lower than market interest rate initially, which may accordingly have lower interest rate caps than ARMs without such teaser rates. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during a given period. Lifetime interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through maturity of a mortgage loan. If these interest rate caps apply to the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate securities, the interest distributions made on the related securities will be similarly impacted. Our borrowings may not be subject to similar interest rate caps. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps would limit the interest distributions on our adjustable-rate agency securities. Further, some of the mortgage loans underlying our adjustable-rate agency securities may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest on those loans being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we could receive less interest distributions on adjustable-rate agency securities, particularly those with an initial teaser rate, than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could lower our net interest income, cause us to suffer a net loss or cause us to incur additional borrowings to fund interest payments during periods of rising interest rates or sell our investments at a loss. Because we may acquire fixed-rate securities, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect our book value. Increases in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of our agency securities. Any fixed-rate securities we invest in generally will be more negatively affected by these increases than adjustable-rate securities. In accordance with accounting rules, we are required to reduce our stockholders’ equity, or book value, by the amount of any decrease in the market value of our mortgage-related assets. We are required to evaluate our securities on a quarterly basis to determine their fair value by using third party price indications provided by dealers who make markets in these securities or by third-party pricing services. If the fair value of a security is not available from a dealer or third-party pricing service, we estimate the fair value of the security using a variety of methods including, but not limited to, discounted cash flow analysis, matrix pricing, option-adjusted spread models and fundamental analysis. Aggregate characteristics taken into consideration include, but are not limited to, type of collateral, index, margin, periodic cap, lifetime cap, underwriting standards, age and delinquency experience. However, the fair value reflects estimates and may not be indicative of the amounts we would receive in a current 14 Table of Contents market exchange. If we are required by accounting rules to reduce the value of one or more agency securities on our balance sheet, then our stockholders’ equity would be correspondingly reduced. Reductions in stockholders’ equity decrease the amounts we may borrow to purchase additional securities, which could restrict our ability to increase our net income. Because we acquire agency securities that are backed by hybrid ARMs and may acquire fixed-rate securities, an increase in interest rates may adversely affect our profitability. While all of our investments currently consist of agency securities that are backed by hybrid ARMs, which have a fixed rate for an initial period of time and then become adjustable-rate securities, we may also invest in fixed-rate mortgage securities. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest payments on our borrowings could increase while the interest payments we earn on our hybrid mortgage securities and fixed-rate mortgage securities would not change. As a result, our returns would be reduced. We may experience a decline in the market value of our assets. A decline in the market value of our agency securities or other assets may require us to recognize an “other-than-temporary” impairment against such assets under GAAP if we were to determine that, with respect to any assets in unrealized loss positions, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair market value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. In this regard, we note that the fair market value of our agency securities is and has been affected by changes in interest rates and relative “credit spreads,” or the differences in value between agency securities and U.S. Treasuries with similar durations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Market and Interest Rate Trends and the Effect on our Portfolio.” Changes in prepayment rates on our agency securities may decrease our net interest income. Pools of mortgage loans underlie the agency securities that we acquire. We will generally receive principal distributions from the principal payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers repay their mortgage loans faster than expected, this will result in prepayments that are faster than expected on the agency securities. Prepayment rates are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors, all of which are beyond our control. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, government actions, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Faster than expected prepayments could adversely affect our profitability, including in the following ways: • We may purchase agency securities that have a higher interest rate than the market interest rate at the time of purchase. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we would be required to pay a premium over the face amount of the security to acquire the security. In accordance with accounting rules, we would amortize this premium over the anticipated term of the mortgage security. If principal distributions are received faster than anticipated, we would be required to expense the premium faster. We may not be able to reinvest the principal distributions received on agency securities in similar new agency securities and, to the extent that we can do so, the effective interest rates on the new agency securities will likely be lower than the yields on the mortgages that were prepaid. • We also may acquire agency securities at a discount. If the actual prepayment rates on a discount mortgage security are slower than anticipated at the time of purchase, we would be required to recognize the discount as income more slowly than anticipated. This would adversely affect our profitability. Slower than expected prepayments also may adversely affect the market value of a discount mortgage security. 15 Table of Contents Competition may prevent us from acquiring mortgage-related assets at favorable yields and that would negatively impact our profitability. Our net income largely depends on our ability to acquire mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs. In acquiring mortgage-related assets, we compete with other REITs, investment banking firms, savings and loan associations, banks, insurance companies, mutual funds, other lenders and other entities that purchase mortgage-related assets, many of which have greater financial resources than us. As a result, we may not in the future be able to acquire sufficient mortgage-related assets at favorable spreads over our borrowing costs which would adversely affect our profitability. Rapid changes in the values of our real estate-related investments may make it difficult for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT or exemption from the Investment Company Act. We may acquire non-real estate related assets in the event our independent directors change our investment strategies. If the market value or income potential of real estate-related investments declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase our real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exemption from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish. This difficulty may be exacerbated by the illiquid nature of any non-real estate assets that we may own. We may have to make investment decisions that we otherwise would not make absent the REIT and Investment Company Act considerations. Because assets we expect to acquire may experience periods of illiquidity, we may lose profits or be prevented from earning capital gains if we cannot sell mortgage-related assets at an opportune time. We bear the risk of being unable to dispose of our mortgage-related assets at advantageous times or in a timely manner because mortgage-related assets generally experience periods of illiquidity, including the recent period of delinquencies and defaults with respect to residential mortgage loans. The lack of liquidity may result from the absence of a willing buyer or an established market for these assets, as well as legal or contractual restrictions on resale or the unavailability of financing for these assets. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited, which may cause us to incur losses. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings. Subject to complying with REIT requirements, we employ techniques that limit, or “hedge,” the adverse effects of rising interest rates on our short-term repurchase agreements and on the value of our assets. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal repayments, the type of securities held and other changing market conditions. These techniques may include entering into interest rate swap agreements or interest rate cap or floor agreements, purchasing or selling futures contracts, purchasing put and call options on securities or securities underlying futures contracts, or entering into forward rate agreements. We have implemented a policy to limit our use of hedging instruments to only those techniques described above and to only enter into hedging transactions with counterparties that have a high-quality credit rating. However, there are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. In addition, these hedging strategies may adversely affect us because hedging activities involve an expense that we will incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity. Hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. Additionally, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • fair value accounting rules could foster adverse valuation adjustments due to credit quality considerations that could impact both earnings and shareholder equity. • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and 16 Table of Contents • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with accounting rules to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity. We may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We have recorded, and intend to record, derivative and hedge transactions in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, specifically Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS 133”). Under these standards, we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the SFAS 133 definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy SFAS 133 hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or our instruments are not highly effective. If we fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, our operating results may suffer because losses on the derivatives we enter into may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction. We are highly dependent on information and communications systems. Any systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our operations and the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our manager’s systems could cause delays or other problems in our agency securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Risks Related to Debt Financing We incur significant debt to finance our investments, which subjects us to increased risk of loss. We generally borrow between eight and 12 times the amount of our stockholders’ equity, although our borrowings may at times be above or below this amount. As of December 31, 2008, our borrowings were approximately $4.5 billion, and our debt-to-stockholders’ equity ratio was approximately 6.1:1. To the extent we exceed a debt-to-stockholders’ equity ratio of 12:1, the adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations from the types of risks described in this section would likely be more severe. We incur leverage by borrowing against our agency securities. Incurring debt subjects us to many risks, including the risks that: • our cash flow from operations will be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, resulting in the loss of some or all of our securities due to foreclosure or sale in order to satisfy our debt obligations; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for distribution to stockholders, funding our operations, future business opportunities or other purposes; • the terms of any refinancing will not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; • the use of leverage could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and could reduce the market price of our stock; • a default under a loan could result in an involuntary liquidation of the securities pledged for such loan, including any cross-collateralized securities, which would result in a loss to us of the difference between the value of the securities upon liquidation and the carrying value of the securities; and • to the extent we are compelled to liquidate assets to repay debts, such an event could jeopardize (1) our REIT status, or (2) our exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act, the loss of either of which could decrease our overall profitability and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 17 Table of Contents A decrease in the value of assets financed through repurchase agreements may lead our lenders to require us to pledge additional assets as collateral. If our assets are insufficient to meet the collateral requirements, then we may be compelled to liquidate particular assets at an inopportune time. A majority of our borrowings are and will be secured by our agency securities, generally under repurchase agreements. The amount borrowed under a repurchase agreement is based on the market value of the agency securities pledged to secure the borrowings. Our repurchase agreements allow our lenders to revise the market value of the agency securities pledged as collateral from time to time to reflect then–current market conditions. Possible market developments, including a sharp rise in interest rates, a change in prepayment rates or increasing market concern about the value or liquidity of one or more types of securities in which our portfolio is concentrated, may cause a decline in the market value of the agency securities used to secure these debt obligations, which could limit our ability to borrow or result in lenders requiring us to pledge additional collateral to secure our borrowings or repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings, on minimal notice. In that situation, we could be required to sell agency securities under adverse market conditions in order to obtain the additional collateral required by the lender or to pay down our borrowings. If these sales are made at prices lower than the carrying value of the agency securities, we would experience losses, thus adversely affecting our operating results and net profitability. In recent months, a number of companies owning mortgage securities have been required by lenders to pledge additional collateral as the market value of their mortgage securities declined. In the ordinary course of our business, we experience margin calls, which require us to pledge additional collateral or pay down our borrowings. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Further, financial institutions may require us to maintain a certain amount of cash that is not invested or to set aside non-leveraged assets sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position which would allow us to satisfy our collateral obligations. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our assets as fully as we would choose, which could reduce our return on equity. In the event that we are unable to meet these collateral obligations, then, as described above, our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly. Failure to procure adequate debt financing, or to renew or replace existing debt financing as it matures, would adversely affect our results and may, in turn, negatively affect the value of our common stock and our ability to distribute dividends. We use debt financing as a strategy to increase our return on investments. However, we may not be able to achieve our desired debt-to-equity ratio for a number of reasons, including the following: • our lenders do not make debt financing available to us at acceptable rates; or • our lenders require that we pledge additional collateral to cover our borrowings, which we may be unable to do. The recent dislocations in the residential mortgage market and credit markets have led lenders, including the financial institutions that provide financing for our investments, to heighten their credit review standards, and, in some cases, to reduce or eliminate loan amounts available to borrowers. As a result, we cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, debt funding will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Furthermore, because we rely primarily on short-term borrowings, our ability to achieve our investment objective depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings. As of December 31, 2008, a majority of our borrowings bore maturities of 30 days or less. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we will have to sell some or all of our assets, possibly under adverse market conditions. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders could impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt, our capability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute may contain negative covenants that limit, among other things, our ability to repurchase stock, distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations, and employ leverage beyond certain amounts. 18 Table of Contents We may incur increased borrowing costs related to repurchase agreements and that would adversely affect our profitability. Substantially all of our borrowings are expected to be collateralized borrowings in the form of repurchase agreements. Our borrowing costs under our repurchase agreements generally correspond to short-term interest rates such as LIBOR or a short-term Treasury index, plus or minus a margin. The margins on these borrowings over or under short-term interest rates may vary depending upon: • the movement of interest rates; • the availability of financing in the market; and • the credit quality, value and liquidity of our agency securities. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average margin requirement under all our repurchase agreements was approximately 5.4% (weighted by borrowing amount). If the interest rates on these repurchase agreements increase at a rate higher than the increase in rates payable on our investments, our profitability would be adversely affected. If the counterparties to our repurchase transactions default on their obligations to resell the underlying security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying security has declined as of the end of that term or if we default on our obligations under the repurchase agreement, we will lose money on our repurchase transactions. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we generally sell securities to the transaction counterparty and receive cash from the counterparty. The counterparty is obligated to resell the securities back to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically from 30 days to less than one year, but which may have terms in excess of one year. The cash we receive from the counterparty when we initially sell the securities to the counterparty is less than the value of those securities, which is referred to as the haircut. If the counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). We would also lose money on a repurchase transaction if the value of the underlying securities has declined as of the end of the transaction term, as we would have to repurchase the securities for their initial value but would receive securities worth less than that amount. Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another repurchase dealer in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. There is no assurance we would be able to establish a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. Our use of repurchase agreements to borrow funds may give our lenders greater rights in the event that either we or a lender file for bankruptcy. Our borrowings under repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the bankruptcy code, giving our lenders the ability to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the bankruptcy code and to take possession of and liquidate our collateral under the repurchase agreements without delay in the event that we file for bankruptcy. Furthermore, the special treatment of repurchase agreements under the bankruptcy code may make it difficult for us to recover our pledged assets in the event that a lender files for bankruptcy. Thus, our use of repurchase agreements will expose our pledged assets to risk in the event of a bankruptcy filing by either a lender or us. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Failure to maintain an exemption from the Investment Company Act would adversely affect our results of operations. We believe that we conduct our business in a manner that allows us to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Under Section 3(c)(5)(C), the Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring “mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate.” The staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, has provided 19 Table of Contents guidance on the availability of this exemption. Specifically, the staff’s position generally requires us to maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in qualifying real estate interests and 80% in real estate-related investments (including our qualifying real estate interests). We refer to this exemption as the “Mortgage Exemption.” In order to constitute a qualifying real estate interest under the 55% requirement, a real estate interest must meet various criteria. Mortgage securities that do not represent all of the certificates issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgages may be treated as securities separate from the underlying mortgage loans and, thus, may not qualify for purposes of the 55% requirement. Our ownership of these mortgage securities, therefore, is limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. Accordingly, we intend to maintain at least 55% of our assets in whole pools of mortgages issued by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. We may, consistent with our investment allocation guidelines and the Investment Company Act, invest up to 45% but not less than 25% of our remaining assets in partial pools of mortgages and other real estate-related investments (including our qualifying real estate interests). Competition for investments may prevent us from acquiring mortgage securities that meet the 55% requirement at favorable yields or from acquiring sufficient qualifying securities to comply with the Mortgage Exemption under the Investment Company Act. If we fail to continue to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced and we would be unable to conduct our business as planned. We are or will soon become subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting, internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We are or will soon become subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404, when it becomes applicable to us, requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. These reporting and other obligations place or will place significant demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit and accounting resources and cause or will cause us to incur significant expenses. We may need to upgrade our systems or create new systems; implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; expand or outsource our internal audit function; and hire additional accounting, internal audit and finance staff. If we are unable to accomplish these objectives in a timely and effective fashion, our ability to comply with the financial reporting requirements and other rules that apply to reporting companies could be impaired. Any failure to maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Our policies are determined by our board of directors, and our stockholders have limited rights. Our board of directors is responsible for our strategic business direction. Our major policies, including our policies with respect to acquisitions, leasing, financing, growth, operations, debt limitation and distributions, are determined by our board of directors. Our board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our stockholders. Our board’s broad discretion in setting policies and stockholders’ inability to exert control over those policies increases the uncertainty and risks you face as a stockholder. Our board of directors may approve the issuance of capital stock with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us and may increase or decrease our authorized capital stock without stockholder approval. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock, issuable in one or more classes or series. We may issue a class of preferred stock to individual investors in order to comply with the various REIT requirements. Our charter further permits our board of directors to amend our charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our authorized stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series without stockholder approval. Our board of directors may also classify or reclassify any unissued shares of preferred or common stock and establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote, participate in earnings and to convert into shares of our common stock) of any such shares of stock, which rights may be superior to those of shares of our common stock. Thus, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of shares of preferred or common stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of our common stock. Furthermore, to the extent we issue additional equity interests, your percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending on the terms and pricing of any additional offerings, you may also experience dilution in the book value and fair value of your shares. 20 Table of Contents Our ownership limitations may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Code, no more than 50% of the value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or under applicable attribution rules, by five or fewer individuals (as defined by the Code to include certain entities) during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first REIT taxable year). To preserve our REIT qualification, our charter generally prohibits direct or indirect ownership by any person of either (1) more than the aggregate stock ownership limit or (2) more than the common stock ownership limit. Generally, shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limits. Any transfer of shares of our common stock that would violate the ownership limits will result in the shares of common stock that would otherwise be held in violation of the ownership limits being designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a trust effective on the day before the purported transfer or other event giving rise to such excess ownership. The intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. The beneficiary of the trust will be one or more charitable organizations named by us. The ownership limits could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of shares of common stock might receive a premium for their shares of common stock over the then current market price or that such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The ownership limit provisions also may make our shares of common stock an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of either (1) more than 9.8% of the number or value of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) more than 9.8% of the number or value of our outstanding shares of all classes. Provisions of Maryland law and other provisions of our organizational documents may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interests, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the acquiring stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. Our bylaws provide that we are not subject to the “control share” provisions of the MGCL. However, our board of directors may elect to make the “control share” statute applicable to us at any time, and may do so without stockholder approval. Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to elect on behalf of our company to be subject to statutory provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control of our company that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in their best interest. Pursuant to Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL, our charter provides that our board of directors will have the exclusive power to fill vacancies on our board. As a result, unless all of the directorships are vacant, our stockholders will not be able to fill vacancies with nominees of their own choosing. Our board of directors may elect to opt in to additional provisions of Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL without stockholder approval at any time. Additionally, our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control of our company. For example, our charter and bylaws provide that the number of directors constituting our full board may be fixed only by our directors, that our bylaws may only be amended by our directors and that a special meeting of stockholders may not be called by holders of our common stock holding less than a majority of our outstanding shares entitled to vote at such meeting. 21 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in stockholders’ best interests. Our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers for money damages, except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, or a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our charter also authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the extent permitted by Maryland law, and our bylaws obligate us, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, to indemnify any present or former director or officer of our company from and against any claim or liability to which he or she may become subject by reason of his or her service in that capacity. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Finally, we have entered into agreements with our directors and officers pursuant to which we have agreed to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our manager has broad discretion to determine the specific use of net offering proceeds, and the use of proceeds may not increase our revenues or market value. Our manager will have considerable discretion in the specific application of net proceeds from any future offerings, may apply the net proceeds in ways other than those we currently expect, and may apply the net proceeds in ways that may not increase our revenues or our market value. You will not have the opportunity, as part of your investment decision, to assess whether the proceeds of this offering are being used appropriately. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, senior or subordinated notes and series of preferred stock or common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments or both that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and there are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends and to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments, is distributed. This, along with other factors, should enable us to qualify for the tax benefits accorded to a REIT under the Code. Even though we have paid dividends on our common stock with respect to our partial fourth quarter in 2007, January 2008, February and March 2008 and our second, third and fourth quarters in 2008, we have not established a minimum dividend payment level and our ability to pay dividends may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay dividends in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our stock. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could affect our stock price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: 22 Table of Contents • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in our operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the industry; • increases in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our common stock to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; and • general market and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and may have been unrelated to operating performances of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock. Future issuances or sales of shares could cause our share price to decline. Sales of substantial numbers of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. Other issuances of our common stock could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of our common stock may be dilutive to existing stockholders. Federal Income Tax Risks If we do not qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and face substantial tax liability. We expect to continue to operate so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code. However, qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which only a limited number of judicial or administrative interpretations exist. Even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our REIT status. Furthermore, new tax legislation, administrative guidance or court decisions, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT. If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any tax year, then we would be taxed as a regular domestic corporation, which, among other things, means being unable to deduct distributions to stockholders in computing taxable income and being subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates. Any resulting tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders, which could in turn have an adverse impact on the value of our stock. Furthermore, unless we were entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the subsequent four taxable years following the year during which we lost our qualification, and thus, our cash available for distribution to stockholders would be reduced for each of the years during which we did not qualify as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. 23 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets and operations. Under these provisions, any income that we generate from transactions intended to hedge our interest rate, inflation and/or currency risks will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests if the instrument hedges (i) interest rate risk on liabilities incurred to carry or acquire real estate assets or (ii) risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain that would be qualifying income under the REIT 75% or 95% gross income tests, and such instrument is properly identified under applicable regulations of the U.S. Treasury. Income from hedging transactions entered into prior to July 31, 2008 that hedge interest rate risk on liabilities incurred to carry or acquire real estate assets will be excluded from gross income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test, but will not be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test. Income from hedging transactions that do not meet these requirements will generally constitute nonqualifying income for purposes of both the REIT 75% and 95% gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we must also ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer and no more than 20% (or, beginning with our 2009 taxable year, 25%) of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter in order to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to borrow to make distributions to stockholders or otherwise depend on external sources of capital to fund such distributions. As a REIT, we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (subject to certain adjustments) to our stockholders. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. While we generally intend to make distributions so that no income or excise taxes are due, we may from time to time, consistent with maintaining our REIT qualification, elect to pay taxes in lieu of making current distributions if we decide that strategy is more favorable to our stockholders. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our net income for financial reporting purposes due to, among other things, amortization of capitalized purchase premiums, or our taxable income may be greater than our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. If we do not have other funds available in these situations, we could be required to borrow funds, sell a portion of our agency securities at disadvantageous prices or find another alternative source of funds in order to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our equity. Because of the distribution requirement, it is unlikely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital needs in connection with investments, from cash retained from operations. As a result, to fund future capital needs, we likely will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, including both debt and equity financing, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our access to third-party sources of capital will depend upon a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions and the market price of our stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 