D. Risk Factors An investment in our ADSs involves significant risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. You should consider carefully all of the information in this annual report, including the risks and uncertainties described below and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making an investment in our ADSs. Any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In any such case, the market price of our ADSs could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESSES A material disruption of our operations could adversely affect our businesses. Our biodiesel and copper operations are subject to uncertainties and contingencies beyond our control that could result in material disruptions in our operations and adversely affect our business. These include industrial accidents, fires, floods, droughts, storms, earthquakes, natural disasters and other catastrophes, equipment failures or other operational problems, strikes or other labor difficulties and disruptions of public infrastructure. Any breakdown or malfunction of any production equipment could cause a material disruption of our operations that could lead to a reduction in, or halt in our production of biodiesel and/or copper products. Any reduction or halt in production could prevent us from meeting customer orders, adversely affect our business reputation, increase our costs of production or require us to make unplanned capital expenditures, all which could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Electricity shortages could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and increases in the price of electricity and natural gas could increase our costs and lower our profitability. All of our manufacturing assets and operations for our biodiesel and copper products businesses are located in China. Our operations are vulnerable to power shortages that generally affect enterprises located in China. Certain manufacturers in China, especially in eastern and southern China, have in recent years experienced electricity shortages. If there is insufficient electricity supply to satisfy our requirements and accommodate our planned growth, we may need to limit or delay our production or expansion plans. For example, our copper products business is dependent on electricity and natural gas to operate equipment and convert scrap copper into copper products. Accordingly, the successful operation of our facilities requires a reliable supply of electricity and natural gas. If the cities in which we have operations are affected by power outages or must ration power, our production volumes would decrease and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that power shortages will not affect us in the future. In addition, we do not have any insurance coverage for business interruptions, including loss of profits resulting from such interruptions. Any losses that may occur as a result of these kinds of events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increases in the price of electricity or natural gas would increase our operating costs. The energy industry in China has historically experienced shortages and price volatility as a result of a variety of factors, including surging demand as a result of rapid growth in China and disruptions in the supply of coal used to produce electricity. Any significant shortages of electricity and/or natural gas or prolonged blackouts would disrupt our operations, and as a result, negatively impact our operating results. In addition, significant increases in the price of electricity and/or natural gas would adversely affect our profitability if we were unable to pass on those additional costs to our customers. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be subject to infringement claims. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, domain names and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that the measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to prevent any misappropriation of our intellectual property, or that our competitors will not independently develop alternative technologies that are equivalent or superior to technologies based on our intellectual property. We have three registered patents, which relate to our biodiesel business, two in China, each with a validity period of 20 years from August 7, 2002 and from March 9, 2005, respectively, and one in the United States with a validity period of 20 years and 5 months from April 25, 2008. We cannot assure you that these patent registrations will not be revoked or challenged during their validity periods. In addition, we have filed two patent applications with the State Intellectual Property Office of the PRC relating to methods of producing certain copper products. The legal regime governing intellectual property in China is still evolving and the level of protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as those in other jurisdictions. In the event that the steps we have taken and the protection afforded by law do not adequately safeguard our proprietary technology, we could suffer losses due to the sales of competing products that exploit our intellectual property, and our profitability would be adversely affected. Furthermore, we may incur additional overhead costs related to any intellectual property claims we initiate, which will impact our operating results. Many international and domestic biodiesel producers and copper product manufacturers may have also patented certain technologies in connection with the production of their products. To the best of our knowledge, our production processes do not infringe any third party’s intellectual property rights. However, intellectual property rights are complex and there exists the risk that our processes may infringe, or be alleged to infringe, on another party’s intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, to pay ongoing royalties, or to redesign our products or manufacturing processes or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our products or the use of our technologies. 8 Table of Contents Failure to comply with environmental regulations could harm our business. We are subject to various PRC national and local environmental regulations related to our operations, including regulations governing the use, storage, discharge and disposal of hazardous substances and waste emission levels. If we fail to comply with the applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to significant monetary damages and fines or suspensions of our operations, and our business, reputation and results of operations would be adversely affected. Further, any amendments to these laws and regulations may impose substantial pollution control measures that may require us to make significant expenditures to modify our production process or change the design of our products to limit actual or potential impact to the environment. Moreover, new laws, new interpretations of existing laws, increased governmental enforcement of environmental laws or other developments could require us to make significant additional expenditures, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In November 2006, we installed a covered storage tank at our Fujian plant at the recommendation of the local environmental bureau. We currently use uncovered storage tanks at our Hebei facilities. If we are required to undertake further compliance measures at any of our plants, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As of the date of this annual report, Shanghai Gushan, which commenced operation in June 2008, has obtained a water discharge permit as required by the management authority of the industrial area in Fengxian, from the Fengxian branch of the Shanghai Water Authority. Beijing Gushan, which commenced operation in January 2008, has not obtained waste discharge permit from the relevant local environmental authorities. We cannot assure you that waste discharge permits will be obtained or that our Beijing plant will not be materially and adversely affected as a result of its failure to obtain such permits. In addition, any perception of our noncompliance with environmental regulations could harm our business. For example, in August 2007, we experienced protests at our Fujian plant alleging environmental issues. As a result, our operations at the Fujian plant were disrupted for several hours. These and other risks relating to environmental compliance may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not possess valid title to certain buildings that we occupy and commenced construction of certain buildings prior to obtaining the requisite construction approvals. For some of the buildings and land we occupy, we have not yet obtained sufficient land use or title certificates that allow us to occupy, freely use or transfer the land or properties. As of December 31, 2011, Fujian Gushan, Beijing Gushan, Shanghai Gushan, Sichuan Gushan and Jin Xin have not obtained the building ownership certificates for buildings with a total gross floor area of approximately 319 square meters, 9,941 square meters, 7,956 square meters, 9,630 square meters and 16,736 square meters, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of these buildings amounted to RMB21.4 million (US$3.4 million). We currently use these properties as production facilities and ancillary facilities. We are in the process of carrying out completion inspections of these buildings and applying for the relevant building ownership certificates. Beijing Gushan and Jin Xin are also applying for land use right certificates with respect to land occupying a total gross floor area of approximately 54,965 and 8,391 square meters, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of these land use rights amounted to RMB18.3 million (US$2.9 million) and nil, respectively. On October 18, 2011, we signed an agreement to acquire the land use rights for the site on which we are currently constructing our new copper products facility for consideration of approximately RMB1.0 million. As of December 31, 2011, no payment had been made with respect to the acquisition of such land use rights. We cannot assure you that such building ownership or land use right certificates will be obtained. As a result of our lack of land use right certificates or vested legal title in these properties, we may incur additional costs to relocate our operations and our business operations and our financial condition may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents In addition, Fujian Gushan, Beijing Gushan, Shanghai Gushan, Chongqing Gushan, Sichuan Gushan, Hunan Gushan and Jin Xin commenced construction of certain workshops or ancillary facilities prior to obtaining the construction approvals required by PRC construction law. Each of Fujian Gushan, Beijing Gushan, Shanghai Gushan, Chongqing Gushan, Sichuan Gushan, Hunan Gushan and Jin Xin may be subject to a maximum administrative penalty of RMB30,000 (US$4,767). As of December 31, 2011, Fujian Gushan, Beijing Gushan, Sichuan Gushan and Shanghai Gushan have not obtained all necessary approvals for construction of certain workshops or ancillary facilities of a total gross floor area of approximately 319 square meters, 9,941 square meters, 4,460 square meters and 2,335 square meters, respectively, and the relevant government authorities may require the buildings located on these sites to be demolished. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of these buildings amounted to nil. As of December 31, 2011, Jin Xin had not obtained all necessary approvals for construction of certain workshops or ancillary facilities of a total gross floor area of approximately 16,736 square meters, and the relevant government authority may require the buildings located on these sites to be demolished. As of December 31, 2011, the carrying value of these buildings amounted to RMB21.4 million (US$2.9 million). If the relevant government authorities impose penalties on us and require us to cease construction of or demolish these properties, we may incur additional costs and expenses for the relocation of these facilities. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover our liability risks. Consistent with customary practice in China, we do not carry any business interruption insurance, third-party liability insurance for personal injury or coverage for environmental damage arising from accidents at our production facilities. In addition, we have no product liability insurance coverage for our products, and prior to 2011, we had very limited product liability insurance coverage for our biodiesel business. The historical maximum payout for each claim was capped at RMB100,000, and the cumulative maximum payout under our product liability insurance policies ranges from RMB500,000 to RMB1,000,000. Should an uninsured or underinsured liability claim occur, our business operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Further, if such incidents are publicized, our reputation maybe adversely affected, which could result in reduced and/or cancelled sales, thereby adversely affecting our revenues. Our future performance depends on the continued service of our senior management and our ability to attract, train and retain skilled personnel. Our future success depends on the continued service of our key management and technical staff, in particular, our founder, chairman and principal executive officer, Mr. Jianqiu Yu, our chief technology officer for our biodiesel business, Mr. Deyu Chen, the managing director of Jin Xin, Mr. Hanjiu Liu and the managing director of Xiangbei, Mr. Weiping Huang. Mr. Yu, our founder, plays a key role in the formation of our business strategy and has extensive knowledge of the local markets in which we operate our biodiesel business. In addition, Mr. Yu is instrumental in formulating our strategies for entering into new markets. Mr. Chen was instrumental in the development of our proprietary biodiesel manufacturing process and continues to play a key role in our technological development. Mr. Liu and Mr. Huang were instrumental in the development of our copper manufacturing processes and are responsible for the overall operation of Jin Xin and Xiangbei, including in key areas such as production, procurement and sales and distribution. If one or more of our key executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily, our future growth may be constrained and our business may be disrupted and our financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. While we have non-competition agreements with most members of our senior management, including Mr. Chen, Mr. Liu, Mr. Yu and Mr. Huang, we may be unable to continue to retain their services and there can be no assurance that they will not compete against us. Our success also depends upon the continued service of our skilled personnel and on our ability to continue to attract, retain and motivate such personnel. There is intense competition to recruit technically competent personnel with expertise in the biodiesel and recycled copper industries and we have periodically experienced difficulties in recruiting suitable personnel. We may also need to offer relatively better compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain these personnel in the future, and we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to achieve our staffing needs. Due to the skills involved in operating some of our equipment, skilled production workers are not easily replaceable, and considerable training is required for new hires. These difficulties could limit our output capacity or reduce our operating efficiency and product quality, which could reduce our profitability and limit our ability to grow. 10 Table of Contents RISKS RELATING TO OUR COPPER PRODUCTS BUSINESS Our dependence on a limited number of third-party raw material suppliers could adversely impact our production or increase our costs, which could harm our reputation or materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We purchase most of the raw materials for our copper products business from a limited number of third-party suppliers. In 2011, our five largest suppliers of our copper products business accounted for approximately 50.2% of our consolidated cost of revenues and our largest supplier accounted for 14.9% of our consolidated cost of revenues. We generally scrap copper on an order-by-order basis at prevailing market prices and do not have any long-term purchase contracts. As a result we may be unable to obtain scrap copper at acceptable prices and adequate quantities to satisfy our requirements. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2011, a number of our suppliers were unwilling to sell all of their inventories to us at market prices due to a decrease in the market price of scrap copper of 23.5% as compared to the third quarter of 2011. This in turn caused our revenue from our copper products business to decrease by 16.4% from RMB473.5 million (US$75.2 million) for the third quarter of 2011 to RMB395.8 million (US$62.9 million) for the fourth quarter of 2011. The failure of any of our key suppliers to supply raw materials satisfying our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to produce our products or could increase our costs. If we fail to maintain our relationships with major raw materials suppliers or fail to develop new relationships with other raw materials suppliers, we may be unable to produce our copper products, or we may only be able to produce our products at a higher cost or after lengthy delays. Our operations are materially affected by the cost and availability of raw materials. The raw materials used for our copper products business consist of scrap copper, primarily sourced from suppliers located in China. The price of such raw materials has fluctuated significantly since 2009. For example, the spot price of copper in China ranged from a low of approximately RMB27,000 per ton to a high of approximately RMB75,000 per ton during the period from 2009 to the end of the first quarter of 2012. As we generally pay prevailing market prices for scrap copper at the time of purchase, an increase in scrap copper prices would increase our need for working capital and financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, and may also increase our customers’ working capital requirements, which could result in delays in payments by our customers and increases in our trade receivables and bills receivable. Decreases in copper prices may result in a decrease in the selling price of our inventory, which would negatively affect our gross profit margin. In the event we are unable to obtain a sufficient quantity of raw materials at reasonable prices, or to pass on higher raw material costs to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of customers and the loss of any of our major customers may cause significant declines in our revenues. In 2011, the total revenues from our copper products business accounted for 96.3% of our consolidated revenues. However, we derive a significant portion of the revenues from our copper products business from a small number of customers, and we may be unable to maintain and expand our current customer relationships. In 2011, the five largest customers of our copper products business accounted for approximately 46.5% of the revenues from our copper products business and 44.8% of our consolidated revenues, while the largest customer accounted for approximately 14.3% of the revenues from our copper products business and 13.8% of our consolidated revenues. We expect that we will continue to depend on a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of our sales volume and revenues. If we lose any of our major customers for any reason, including, for example, if our reputation declines, a customer materially reduces its orders from us, our relationship with one or more of our major customers deteriorates, or a major customer becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for our products, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents If the unit cost of raw materials increase and the average selling price of our products does not similarly increase or if the average selling price of our products decreases and the unit cost of our raw materials does not similarly decrease, our margins will decrease and our results of operations will be harmed. Our gross margins from sales of copper products are principally dependent on the spread between raw material prices and copper product prices. If the unit cost of raw materials increase and the average selling price of copper products does not similarly increase or if the average selling price of copper products decrease and the unit cost of raw materials do not similarly decrease, our margins will decrease and results of operations will be harmed. Currently, there is a close correlation between production costs and prices of copper products, meaning that we are able to pass increased raw material costs on to our customers. However, any decrease in the spread between copper product prices and raw material prices, whether as a result of an increase in raw material prices or a reduction in copper product prices, would adversely affect our financial performance and cash flow. We may not be able to effectively manage our current expansion, the failure of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are currently in the process of constructing an additional copper production facility located next to our Sichuan copper production facility. This facility, when completed, is expected to have a daily production capacity of 160 tons of copper products and an annual production capacity of approximately 48,000 tons of copper products. We expect to complete the construction of this facility during 2012. The construction of this facility may be subject to construction delays, cost overruns, failures or delays in obtaining government approvals or the inability to secure the necessary production equipment. Any future expansion plans would require us to secure raw materials at competitive prices and to host a sufficiently large local customer base to support such expanded production. In addition, we may not have the necessary management or financial resources to oversee the successful and timely construction of new production facilities or expansion of existing facilities. Furthermore, to effectively manage any future expansion we would need to improve our operational and financial systems and procedures and system of internal control. Our past growth has strained our resources and made it difficult to maintain and update our internal procedures and controls as necessary to meet the expansion of our overall business. We would need to expand, train and manage our employee base, or successfully establish new subsidiaries for the new or expanded facilities. We would also need to continue to maintain and expand our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively manage any expansion or achieve any expansion at all in the future. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors as well as competing technologies and other products, we may lose our market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. With respect to our copper products business, we compete primarily with local companies and new entrants to the market, some of which may have lower cost structures than us due to lower capital expenditures or lower labor costs. As the barriers to entry in the industry are relatively low, the recycled copper industry in China is highly fragmented and competitive, with a large number of manufacturers throughout the country. We also compete with large companies and may face competition from foreign companies and metal manufacturers seeking to vertically integrate their operations. Some of our recycled copper competitors may have greater financial and other resources than us. Our copper products also compete with imported recycled copper and further appreciation of the Renminbi may lower the cost of imported recycled scrap copper and may intensify such competition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in our existing markets for copper products. Any increase in competition may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully integrate our newly acquired copper products businesses or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. Acquisitions have been, and are expected to continue to be, an element of our growth strategy for our copper products business. We acquired a 67% ownership interest in Jin Xin in November 2010 and subsequently increased our ownership interest to 75% in January 2011. We also acquired a 75% indirect ownership interest in Xiangbei in August 2011. In November 2011 we signed definitive agreements to acquire Guangzhou Taiyue Communications Cable Co. Ltd. (“Taiyue”), the consummation of which are subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. If we cannot successfully integrate these or future acquisitions, joint ventures and other partnerships on a timely basis, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs, we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate and our expectations of future results of operations and synergies may not be achieved. In addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if we are unable to improve the efficiency of Jin Xin’s and Xiangbei’s operations. Acquisitions involve substantial risks, including: • unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, accounting systems and personnel; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the need to attract and retain management and key employees; • unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; • risks relating to obtaining sufficient equity or debt financing; • potential undisclosed liabilities; and • the loss of customers or suppliers. In addition, if we finance future acquisitions by issuing equity or equity-related securities or issue such securities as part or all of the consideration for future acquisitions, the equity interests of our shareholders would be diluted, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Moreover, we may finance acquisitions with debt, resulting in higher leverage and finance costs. We may not be able to consummate the proposed acquisition of Taiyue. On November 3, 2011, we entered into definitive agreements to acquire a controlling interest in Taiyue, a PRC-based company that is currently engaged in the manufacture and sale of copper cable for applications that include communications and personal computing. The consummation of the acquisition is subject to the satisfaction of, among others, customary closing conditions, including obtaining approvals from relevant PRC governmental authorities and no assurance can be given that the proposed acquisition will be consummated. Our copper products business is subject to seasonality. Demand for our copper products is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Demand for our copper products in China is generally higher in the second half of the year due to the Chinese New Year holiday in the first half of the year, during which some of our customers recess their operations for as long as three weeks. As a result, fluctuations in the demand for copper products during in the second half of the year may have a disproportionate impact on our results of operations. Our copper products business and prospects depend heavily on the performance of metal and metal consuming industries in China. Our copper products business and prospects depend heavily on the performance of the metal industry in China, particularly the copper industry, and the industries that consume copper in China. China has experienced rapid growth in recent years, which has contributed to the strong demand for copper. This, in turn, has resulted in strong demand for recycled scrap copper. A significant slowdown in the Chinese economy, or a downturn in the construction or manufacturing sectors in China, would likely adversely affect demand for copper in China. Demand for copper products may also be affected by various other factors, such as changes in industry preferences, the cost and availability of substitute materials and raw material prices. 13 Table of Contents As a result, we cannot assure you that there will be continued or growing demand for copper products in China. If demand for copper products in China does not continue to grow or grows more slowly than expected, copper product prices may decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our copper products business is subject to risks related to transportation systems. Our copper products business is highly dependent upon the transportation systems we use to acquire raw materials and deliver our products. We receive raw materials from suppliers and deliver copper products to our customers primarily by truck, using third-party providers. Because we generally keep only 15 to 30 days of inventory on hand, our business is substantially dependent on reliable and efficient transportation systems. Transportation services are subject to disruption from a variety of causes, including shortages of supplies, equipment or operating problems, labor disputes or strikes, storms and adverse weather, energy shortages, natural disasters and other causes. Disruptions in the transportation systems we use for these or any other reasons could adversely affect our ability to receive raw materials and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis. A prolonged disruption in these transportation services, or a significant increase in transportation costs, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our copper products business may be subject to liability in connection with industrial accidents at our production facilities. Our copper operations involve the operation of heavy machinery that could result in industrial accidents that may cause injuries or death. We cannot assure you that industrial accidents, whether due to malfunctions of machinery or other reasons, will not occur in the future at our production facilities. In such an event, we may be liable for loss of life and property, medical expenses, medical leave payments and fines and penalties for violation of applicable PRC laws and regulations. In addition, we may experience interruptions in our operations and may be required to change the manner in which we operate as a result of governmental investigations or the implementation of safety measures due to accidents. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our copper products business requires a high level of working capital to sustain our operations and overall growth. Because the purchase of raw materials requires substantial capital, we require a high level of working capital to sustain our copper operations and maintain our overall growth. Historically, Jin Xin and Xiangbei have financed their working capital through cash from operations derived from customer payments, short term bank loans, advances from shareholders and capital contributions from shareholders. Accordingly, our liquidity and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected if we do not receive payments from our customers on a timely basis to satisfy payments to our suppliers and other working capital requirements, or if we are unable to obtain financing on satisfactory terms. We cannot assure you that our copper products business will be able to maintain positive operating cash flow or obtain adequate financing to meet our future working capital requirements. The inability to achieve positive operating cash flow or obtain additional short-term bank loans, advances from shareholders or other additional financing on a timely basis or on acceptable terms would adversely affect our ability to satisfy our working capital requirements, including payments to suppliers in accordance with the terms of our agreements with them. In addition, we cannot assure you that our copper products business will be able to obtain additional working capital for our expansion plans, or that additional working capital needs of our new production facilities will not adversely impact the current or future level of working capital for our existing production facilities. 14 Table of Contents We may be unable to obtain adequate financing to fund our capital requirements. We expect that over the next several years, a substantial portion of our cash flow and available cash may be used to finance the upgrading and/or modification of our existing copper production facilities, or investments in businesses in the copper industry. We may need to obtain additional financing to fund our capital expenditures and potential acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining such financing at a reasonable cost or at all. Our inability to finance our planned capital expenditures and potential acquisition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity position. Rising interest rates would increase our borrowing costs. We currently rely in part on short-term bank borrowings to finance our copper products business’s working capital and operations, much of which bears interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2011, we had bank borrowings, all of which were borrowed by Jin Xin, due within one year of RMB110.0 million (US$17.5 million), with interest rates ranging from 6.941% to 8.528% per annum. If interest rates on bank borrowings increase, our cost of borrowing will increase and our profitability may be adversely affected. The People’s Bank of China, or the PBOC, has adjusted the benchmark one-year lending rate and the deposit reserve ratio for PRC commercial banks a number of times in 2010 and 2011. Such tightening measures caused interest rates to increase and limited the amount that commercial banks in China were able to lend. A significant increase in prevailing interest rates could substantially increase our finance costs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our copper products business requires significant capital investments. Our copper products business requires a high level of working capital to sustain our growth, maintain our equipment, comply with environmental laws and regulations and remain competitive. We will also be required to make substantial capital investments in connection with our planned new copper product production facilities in Sichuan. Since our acquisition of Jin Xin in November 2010, we have made total capital expenditures of RMB23.5 million and RMB11.6 million (US$1.8 million) in 2010 and 2011, respectively, primarily related to the expansion of our copper product production capacity. In 2012, we expect to make further capital expenditures in connection with the construction of an additional copper production facility located next to our Sichuan copper production facility. We intend to finance these capital expenditures through our internal resources and bank loans. We have relied in part on external financing, such as bank loans, to fund our capital investments. The availability of external financing depends on many factors beyond our control, including but not limited to market conditions and policies of the PRC government. The current tightening of credit markets in the PRC may also limit our ability to obtain external financing. Our current financing may not be adequate to sustain our operations or to fund future expansion plans and we may not be able to obtain additional financing in the future to continue to fund these programs. If we do not have sufficient internally generated cash or acceptable external financing to make necessary capital expenditures in the future, we may be unable to develop or enhance our copper production facilities, take advantage of business opportunities and respond to competitive pressures. Any failure to obtain adequate financing for our current operations or our expansion plans may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any increase in the market price of our ADSs would increase the fair value of the contingent consideration liabilities incurred in connection with, the acquisition of Jin Xin and Xiangbei and may adversely affect our results of operations. In November 2010 we acquired an initial 67% indirect ownership interest in Jin Xin through a series of transactions in exchange for up to 24 million of our newly issued ordinary shares (the “Jin Xin Consideration Shares”). The Jin Xin Consideration Shares are subject to an earn-out arrangement whereby 6 million ordinary shares were delivered to Gold Hero Holdings Limited (“Gold Hero”), at the closing of the transactions, while the remaining 18 million ordinary shares (the “Jin Xin Contingent Consideration Shares”), were placed into escrow to be released in stages in amounts determined based on the ratio of Jin Xin’s net income, under U.S. GAAP, for the year ending December 31, 2010 and the three-year period ending December 31, 2012 to net income targets of RMB30.0 million and RMB190.0 million, respectively. Under the earn-out arrangement, the maximum earn-out award for 2010 of 6 million Jin Xin Contingent Consideration Shares was released to Gold Hero on April 8, 2011, as Jin Xin’s net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, was greater than RMB30.0 million. The remaining Jin Xin Contingent Consideration Shares are to be released to Gold Hero based on the ratio of Jin Xin’s cumulative net income for the three-year period ending December 31, 2012 to the net income target of RMB190.0 million. 15 Table of Contents In August 2011, we acquired a 75% indirect ownership interest in Xiangbei through a series of transactions in exchange for (i) RMB30 million in cash, (ii) up to 20 million newly issued ordinary shares of our Company, and (iii) up to 14.17% of Engen’s enlarged share capital, subject to adjustment pursuant to an earn-out arrangement (together with (ii), the “Xiangbei Contingent Consideration Shares”). The Xiangbei Contingent Consideration Shares are subject to an earn-out arrangement under which such shares may be issued in stages to Gold Wide Enterprises Limited (“Gold Wide”), and Silvery Boom Limited (“Silvery Boom”) in amounts determined based on the ratio of Xiangbei’s net income, under U.S. GAAP, for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2012 and 2013 to net income targets of RMB20.0 million, RMB50.0 million and RMB80.0 million, respectively. Under this earn-out arrangement, if Xiangbei does not achieve a cumulative net income target for the three-year period ending December 31, 2012, Gold Wide and Silvery Boom may be required to return part or all of the Xiangbei Contingent Consideration Shares, as well as up to RMB30 million in cash. In addition, we may be required to issue additional ordinary shares of our Company with a value of up to RMB20 million to Gold Wide and Silvery Boom if the volume weighted average trading price of our ADSs over the 30 calendar day period immediately after the public announcement of our 2013 annual financial results is below US$12.50 per ADSs. The contingent consideration payable in connection with each of these two acquisitions is classified as a liability and stated at its fair value as of the relevant acquisition date and each reporting date. The subsequent change in the fair value of such contingent consideration as of each reporting date is recognized in our statement of operations. Key assumptions behind the calculation of the fair value of contingent consideration include, among others, the market price of our ADSs at each reporting date. An increase in the market price of our ADSs will increase the fair value of contingent consideration and thus may negatively affect our future financial results. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BIODIESEL BUSINESS Our biodiesel operations have been and may continue to be subject to significant suspensions and interruptions, which have resulted in a reduction of our sales volume and may continue to materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our biodiesel plants have been and may continue to be subject to significant suspensions or interruptions for a variety of reasons including the following: • government policies such as taxation regulations introduced by the PRC government which significantly raised the consumption tax on diesel products from January 1, 2009. Although it was later clarified that, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions, pure biodiesel made from animal fats or vegetable oils is exempted from such consumption tax, the consumption tax issue had a substantial impact on our operations, resulting in the suspension and deferral of commencement of operations at certain of our plants. It also had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations as we recognized provisions for consumption tax in 2009 and in the first three quarters of 2010. The consumption tax issue also caused us to shift our sales channel to chemical plants, the market of which is smaller than biodiesel. This contributed in part to the decrease in our revenue and resulted in an impairment charge on our property, plant and equipment; • repair and maintenance or technological upgrades of our production processes; • transport network interference; • relocation of production facilities; 16 Table of Contents • accidents, natural disasters, epidemics and other unexpected or catastrophic events; • local protests, activism and labor disruptions; and • raw material shortages due to disruptions in the operations of our suppliers. We have also made the decision to extend the suspension of certain biodiesel plants and initiate the suspension of substantially all of our other biodiesel plants due to raw material shortages, high raw material input costs, and slowing demand. Further, unscheduled downtime or operational hazards inherent in the biodiesel industry, such as equipment failures, fires, explosions, release of toxic chemicals such as methanol, abnormal pressures, blowouts, pipeline ruptures, transportation accidents, power outages or shortages or other events outside of our control, may also result in the prolonged suspension of our operations. Some of these events may also cause personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment or environmental damage, and may result in the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Our insurance may not be adequate to fully cover the potential events described above and we may not be able to renew this insurance on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We cannot assure you that we will be in a position to resume production at our biodiesel plants in the foreseeable future or that if we do resume production, that we will not experience further suspensions or interruptions or experience damage to our facilities as a result of future natural disasters, governmental directives or policies, including other taxation regulations, expansion of production capacity, repair and maintenance, relocation of facilities or other consequences associated with such events, which could materially and adversely affect our biodiesel business and its results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to resume production at certain of our plants in time to meet customer demand for our products. Production at substantially all of our biodiesel plants was suspended during 2011. We cannot assure you that the operating condition of our machinery and equipment will allow us to resume production at such plants in a timely manner or at all. To resume production operations, we need to undertake substantial planning and mechanical work to, among other things, inspect, reconfigure, test and fine tune our machinery and equipment and it is uncertain how long this process will take. We may also experience equipment breakdowns or other technical problems during resumption of production that will delay our production and increase our operating expenditures. When we resume production, we may not be able to resume our production operations at the necessary production levels and our production facility may be permanently impaired by our suspension of operations. We will also need to procure an adequate amount of raw materials at acceptable costs in order to resume production. The price and availability of raw materials are affected by a number of factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to procure an adequate amount of raw materials at acceptable costs or at all in order to resume production. See “—Our dependence on a limited number of third-party raw materials suppliers could adversely impact our production or increase our costs, which could harm our reputation or materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” In addition, our supplier and customer base may have been materially and adversely affected by our suspension of operations. As a result of any of the foregoing, we cannot assure you that we will be able to resume production in time to meet customer demand for our products, which may result in a loss of customer orders and have a material adverse effect on our biodiesel business and its results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. As of December 31, 2012, only our biodiesel plant that we hold and operate through Sichuan Gushan, was in operation. A decline in the price of diesel or other fuel sources or an increase in their supply could constrain the selling price of our biodiesel and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our biodiesel prices are influenced by market prices for diesel, the pricing of which is affected by global and domestic market prices for crude oil. As a result, any decline in the price of diesel may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The PRC government also publishes “guidance prices” with respect to diesel. These guidance prices typically establish a ceiling for retail prices for diesel that are generally followed by industry participants. As biodiesel prices are affected by the price of diesel, the PRC government’s prevailing guidance prices typically limit the price range for our biodiesel. 17 Table of Contents In recent years, the demand for and price of biodiesel in the PRC has also been influenced by the level of energy consumption and prices of crude oil and natural gas in relation to the level of growth in the PRC economy. Demand for biodiesel in the PRC declined significantly in 2009 as a result of the economic slowdown due to the global financial crisis. For example, the price of biodiesel in the PRC began to decline significantly from the fourth quarter of 2008 and such decline continued throughout the third quarter of 2009, resulting from significant decreases in global oil prices and from the rapid contraction of the PRC’s industrial production amid the global financial crisis. During the same period, the average selling price of our biodiesel decreased from RMB6,344 per ton in the third quarter of 2008, to RMB3,960 per ton in the second quarter of 2009. Although the average selling price of biodiesel began to recover steadily to RMB4,835 per ton in the fourth quarter of 2010, this represented a decrease of 23.8% in the average selling price of our biodiesel from the third quarter of 2008 to the fourth quarter of 2010. This decrease in average selling price contributed to our gross loss for 2009 and 2010. If supply of other energy sources continues to increase and exceed the demand for fuel products, demand for our biodiesel may cease to recover or may decline further and our biodiesel business and its results of operations and financial condition may continue to be adversely affected. Although the average selling price of biodiesel further increased by 39.7% to RMB6,754 (US$1,073.1) per ton for the fourth quarter of 2011 from RMB4,835 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2010, the positive effect was largely offset by an increase of 16.7% in the unit cost of raw materials from RMB3,981 per ton for the fourth quarter of 2010 to RMB4,647 (US$738.3) per ton for the fourth quarter of 2011. Taking into account of the conversion loss from raw materials to biodiesel, manufacturing costs and selling and administration costs, we are still unable to make a profit at these price levels. In addition, the prices for the by-products of biodiesel production may decrease significantly due to increased production of biodiesel in the PRC, or a slowdown in the PRC economy, or for other reasons beyond our control. Our operations are materially affected by the cost and availability of raw materials. The principal raw materials we use in the production of biodiesel include vegetable oil offal, used cooking oil and methanol. From 2005 through 2011, the prices we have been required to pay for raw materials for our biodiesel business have steadily increased. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, the overall average unit costs of raw materials for our biodiesel business, which have primarily consisted of used cooking oil and vegetable oil offal, amounted to RMB2,634.5, RMB3,573.2 and RMB4,431.2 (US$704.0) per ton, respectively. Vegetable oil offal is a waste by-product of vegetable oil production, and the availability of vegetable oil offal depends on production levels of vegetable oil. Production levels of vegetable oil are affected by factors beyond our control, such as the quality of harvests of plant crops. Used cooking oil is the oil left over from food processing or preparation, mostly by restaurants and food producers. Therefore, any fluctuations in cooking oil consumption in the food industry in China will affect the supply of used cooking oil. If cooking oil consumption in China decreases, the supply of used cooking oil for our production would be adversely affected. Natural gas is the principal feedstock for our suppliers to produce methanol, and our operations depend on the availability, security of supply and price of methanol. If our suppliers are unable to obtain continued access to sufficient natural gas or if they experience significant interruptions in their supply of natural gas, our biodiesel production would be adversely affected. Any such events that reduce the supply of our raw materials could reduce our production volumes, increase our manufacturing costs, or both, either of which may adversely affect our biodiesel business and its results of operation and financial condition. The failure of a supplier to supply raw materials satisfying our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could impair our ability to produce our products or could increase our costs. In particular, interruptions or shortages of supplies from our key suppliers could disrupt production or impact our ability to increase production and sales. During 2011, local governments cracked down on certain alleged illegal practices of vendors of used cooking oil, forcing a number of our suppliers to suspend operations, which in turn resulted in a shortage of raw material inputs for our biodiesel business. This shortage was one of the main factors contributing to our decision to extend and/or implement the suspension of substantially all of our production of biodiesel and biodiesel by-products. Given the increasingly high raw material input costs and shortage in supply, we do not expect to resume our production of biodiesel and biodiesel by-products on a large scale basis in the near future. 18 Table of Contents Our gross margins in our sales of biodiesel products are principally dependent on the spread between feedstock prices and product prices. Our gross margins from sales of biodiesel are principally dependent on the spread between feedstock prices and biodiesel prices. If the unit cost of feedstock increases and the average selling price of biodiesel does not similarly increase or if the average selling price of biodiesel decreases and the unit cost of feedstock does not similarly decrease, our margins will decrease and our results of operations will be harmed. The spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock prices has narrowed significantly since September 2008. Prices for vegetable oil offal and used cooking oil, which have historically been our principal feedstock and comprised approximately 71.3% of total cost of revenues for our biodiesel business during the year ended December 31, 2011, do not necessarily have a direct price relationship to the price of biodiesel in a particular period. Prices for vegetable oil offal and used cooking oil are principally influenced by general inflation, market and regulatory factors. Biodiesel prices, however, are primarily influenced by the guidance prices set by the National Development and Reform Committee of China, or the NDRC, and supply and demand for petroleum-based diesel fuel, rather than biodiesel production costs. This lack of correlation between production costs and product prices means that we may be unable to pass increased feedstock costs on to our customers. Any decrease in the spread between biodiesel prices and feedstock prices, whether as a result of an increase in feedstock prices or a reduction in biodiesel prices, would adversely affect our ability to resume our production of biodiesel and biodiesel by-products on a large scale basis in the near future. 19 Table of Contents The biodiesel industry faces a number of challenges, and there is no established market for biodiesel in China where biodiesel is considered a principal source of energy for any purpose. Biodiesel has only been produced for commercial applications during the last 10 years in China, and the market for biodiesel products is currently confined to specific regions and is relatively small at the national level. There is no established market in China where biodiesel is considered a principal source of energy for vehicles operating on diesel, or an intermediate product for the manufacture of chemicals, or for any other purpose. We cannot assure you that biodiesel will be accepted or will reach a broader consumer base in China. Our future prospects and operational results will be adversely affected if biodiesel and the biodiesel industry in China fail to develop. The global biodiesel industry is also at an early stage of development and acceptance as compared to other more established industries, and has experienced significant growth only in recent years. Demand for biodiesel may not grow as rapidly as expected or at all. Biodiesel and the global biodiesel industry also face a number of obstacles and drawbacks, including: • potentially increased nitrogen oxide, or NOx, emissions as compared with most formulations of diesel; • gelling at lower temperatures than diesel, which can require the use of low percentage biodiesel blends in colder climates or the use of heated fuel tanks; • potential water contamination that can complicate handling and long-term storage; • reluctance on the part of some auto manufacturers and industry groups to endorse biodiesel and their recommending against the use of biodiesel or high percentage biodiesel blends; • potentially reduced fuel economy due to the lower energy content of biodiesel as compared with diesel; and • potentially impaired growth due to a lack of infrastructure such as dedicated rail tanker cars and truck fleets, sufficient storage facilities, and refining and blending facilities. We may face overcapacity if the biodiesel market in China does not develop as expected. If overcapacity occurs, the expenditures we incur to expand our facilities and increase our capacity may not result in increased revenues, which could cause the results of operations of our biodiesel business to be materially and adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our biodiesel revenues from a small number of customers. We derive a significant portion of our biodiesel revenues from a small number of customers, and we may be unable to maintain and expand our current customer relationships. For 2009, 2010 and 2011 our five largest biodiesel customers represented approximately 22.4%, 44.5% and 42.2% of our biodiesel revenues, respectively, while our largest biodiesel customer represented approximately 7.4%, 18.6% and 14.4% of our biodiesel revenues during such periods, respectively. 20 Table of Contents If we lose any of our major customers for any reason, including, for example, the continued suspension of our biodiesel operations, a decline in our reputation, a customer materially reduces its orders from us, our relationship with one or more of our major customers deteriorates, or a major customer becomes insolvent or otherwise unable to pay for our products, the probability of our resuming production of biodiesel and biodiesel by-products on a large scale basis in the near future may be decreased and as a result, our business prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition, and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors as well as competing technologies and other products, we may lose our market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. With respect to our biodiesel business, existing and future domestic competitors, who may have a greater presence in other regions through government support or enjoy greater popularity among local consumers, may be able to secure a significant market share in regions where we currently do not have plants in operation. We have only seven biodiesel production plants in a limited number of regions in China, including Mianyang in Sichuan province, Fuzhou in Fujian province, Handan in Hebei province, Liuyang in Hunan province and Beijing, Shanghai and Chongqing. See Item 4.D, “Information on the Company—Property, Plant and Equipment—Production Facilities” for further information. In addition, our potential biodiesel competitors might be able to secure raw materials at a lower cost than we can and could therefore threaten our competitive position, which could significantly impact our results of operations and future prospects. Our domestic biodiesel competitors include China Biodiesel International Holding Co., Ltd., China Clean Energy Inc., East River Energy Resources and Science Technology (Zhejiang) Ltd., or East River Energy Resources, China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation, or SINOPEC, China National Offshore Oil Corporation, or CNOOC, and PetroChina Co. Ltd., or PetroChina, some of which have greater resources, brand recognition and access to more extensive distribution channels than we do. Moreover, some of our biodiesel competitors have the ability to manage their risk through diversification, whereas we lack diversification in both the geographic scope and the nature of our biodiesel business. As a result, we could potentially be impacted more by factors affecting the biodiesel industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our biodiesel business were more diversified. We also face potential competition from foreign producers of biodiesel, which may have greater financial and research and development resources. Biodiesel is a relatively new product that was initially introduced outside China, and the technology for producing biodiesel may be more advanced in countries other than China. If foreign competitors, or domestic competitors relying on alliances with or support from foreign producers, enter the PRC biodiesel market, they may develop biodiesel that is more economically viable, which would adversely affect our ability to compete and the results of operations of our biodiesel business. In addition, new technologies may be developed or implemented for alternative energy sources and products that use such energy sources. Advances in the development of fuels other than biodiesel or diesel, or the development of products that use energy sources other than diesel, such as gasoline hybrid vehicles and plug-in electric vehicles, could significantly reduce demand for biodiesel and thus affect our sales. Biodiesel also faces competition from fuel additives that help diesel burn cleaner and therefore reduce the comparative environmental benefits of biodiesel in relation to diesel. Other clean energy sources such as ethanol, liquefied petroleum gas, hydrogen and electricity from clean sources may be more cost-effective to produce, store, distribute or use, more environmentally friendly, or otherwise more successfully developed for commercial production in China than our products. These other energy sources may also receive greater government support than our products in the form of subsidies, incentives or minimum use requirements. As a result, demand for our products may decline and our business model may no longer be viable and the results of operations and financial condition of our biodiesel business may be materially and adversely affected. Any increase in competition arising from an increase in the number or size of competitors or from competing technologies or other clean energy sources may result in price reductions, reduced gross profit margins, loss of our market share and departure of key management, any of which could adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of our biodiesel business. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to keep up with new technology, our ability to offer cost-effective, technologically advanced and environmentally friendly products may be materially and adversely affected and our competitiveness may erode. Our success depends on our ability to offer cost-effective and environmentally friendly products. As the technology for manufacturing biodiesel is at an early stage of development, failure to keep up with technological improvements or to implement such improvements in commercial applications would impede our efforts to reduce unit production costs and correspondingly hinder our efforts to strengthen our competitiveness. Moreover, if alternative technologies that are more cost-effective and environmentally friendly become available to the market, the biodiesel industry in general and our business in particular may not be able to compete against such new alternative energy sources. Further, the PRC government may introduce new standards regulating biodiesel quality with which we may be unable to comply, or we may have to incur additional costs to invest in technology or equipment to meet a new PRC or industry-wide standard. If we fail to achieve any new standard, or if the cost of achieving such standard is prohibitively expensive, we may have to raise prices and our biodiesel may become less attractive to customers or we may have to suspend all or part of our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our biodiesel business and its results of operations and financial condition. The modification or elimination of government initiatives promoting the adoption of clean energy sources in China could cause demand for our products and our revenues to decline. A number of PRC government initiatives promote the adoption of clean energy sources, such as biodiesel. For example, pursuant to the Twelfth Five-Year Plan and the Medium and Long-Term Development Plan, China targets to increase its consumption of energy from renewable sources to 15% of total energy consumption in China by 2020. The plan also includes the promotion of renewable energy sources. Under the plans, China aims to increase its annual consumption of biofuel, with the consumption of biodiesel targeted at two million tons per year by 2020. According to the Law of Renewable Energy Resources, local governments are required to prepare a renewable energy development plan and provide financial support to renewable energy projects in rural areas. Further, the government may grant businesses engaged in biodiesel production certain benefits and incentives, while petroleum marketing enterprises are required to include biodiesel products that comply with the state standard with respect to fuel sales. These government initiatives could be modified or eliminated altogether. Such a change in policy could adversely affect the growth of the biodiesel market and cause our revenues to decline. Changes to or elimination of initiatives designed to increase general acceptance of clean energy sources could result in decreased demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our biodiesel business and its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the PRC government has enacted regulations that are intended to affect corporate behavior pertaining to the environment. Many of these regulations may be favorable to companies, such as us, that are engaged in environmentally friendly or “green” industries. According to the Medium and Long-Term Development Plan, the share of renewables used in primary energy consumption is to be increased from 7.5% in 2005 to roughly 10% by 2010 and nearly 15% by 2020. However, we cannot assure you that demand for our products will increase or that we will otherwise benefit from such regulations. For example, the PRC Ministry of Finance has issued the Temporary Regulation on the Management of Special Funds for the Development of Renewable Resources. Pursuant to this regulation, special funds will be provided to companies for the development of renewable resources, including petroleum substitutes. These funds may be used to promote advancement in the development of energy sources that compete with biodiesel, which may in turn reduce demand for biodiesel. If environmental regulations are relaxed in the future, or if the enforcement of environmental regulations is not sufficiently rigorous, we may not be able to compete effectively against other manufacturers of energy products, including traditional and other clean energy source products. Our business prospects and the results of operations of our biodiesel business may be adversely affected as a result of any of the foregoing factors. RISKS RELATING TO BUSINESS OPERATIONS IN CHINA If foreign ownership of the biodiesel production business in China is restricted, we would have to rely on contractual arrangements to derive economic benefits from, and to control, our new PRC operating entities in the future, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. The NDRC and the Ministry of Commerce of China jointly promulgated a newly revised Catalog for Guiding Foreign Investment in Industries on October 31, 2007, or the Catalog, which came into effect on December 1, 2007. The Catalog was further amended on December 24, 2011, which came into effect on January 30, 2012. Pursuant to the Catalog, biodiesel production is classified as a sub-category of the agricultural food processing industry, which is a restricted industry, and, as a result, any such biodiesel production business in China must be majority-owned by PRC citizens and/or entities. 22 Table of Contents Our PRC legal counsel, Chen & Co. Law Firm, has advised us that based on their understanding of the Catalog, only biodiesel production using agricultural food products as raw materials falls within the “restricted industry” category pursuant to the Catalog. In the opinion of Chen & Co. Law Firm, our biodiesel production process, which utilizes used cooking oil and vegetable oil offal as raw materials, does not fall within the restricted industry category under the Catalog. Further, even if biodiesel production utilizing used cooking oil and vegetable oil offal is classified as a restricted industry, Chen & Co. Law Firm is of the opinion that only new biodiesel production businesses established after December 1, 2007, or existing biodiesel production businesses that require new approvals from the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local branch in order to, for example, increase their registered capital or conduct an equity transfer, would be classified as falling within a restricted industry. There are substantial uncertainties in the interpretation and application of existing and new PRC laws, regulations or policies, including the Catalog. In the event our existing biodiesel production business is deemed a restricted business in China, we would have to reorganize our corporate structure and rely on contractual arrangements with our operating entities in China and their owners of record to derive economic benefits from and exercise control over these entities. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our operating entities as direct ownership. If our operating entities were to fail to perform their obligations under any agreements with us, we would have to resort to legal remedies which could be time consuming and costly and we cannot assure you that such remedies would be available. In addition, we cannot assure you that any of the future direct record owners of our operating entities in China would always act in our best interests. A global financial and economic crisis, and its impact on the Chinese economy, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The global financial and economic crisis that began in 2008 adversely affected the U.S. economy and many other parts of the world, including the PRC. As a result of this crisis, financial markets experienced significant disruptions, leading to extreme volatility and dislocation of the global capital markets. Many of the world’s major economies entered into recession and have not fully recovered. The PRC economy also slowed down significantly in the second half of 2008 and during 2009. Due in part to the global financial crisis, beginning in September 2008, among other measures, the PRC government began to loosen macroeconomic measures and monetary policies by reducing interest rates and decreasing the statutory reserve rates for banks. In addition, in November 2008, the PRC government announced an economic stimulus package in the amount of RMB4 trillion. In 2010, China’s economic growth has approached its pre-crisis level a year after the adoption of a stimulus package. However, the country’s strategy has raised concern that loose monetary policy could inflate the consumer price index, or CPI, form a real estate bubble, build up redundant production capacity and saddle the economy with bad debts. As a result, the PBOC has recently raised the reserve ratio to tighten liquidity in the financial system. As we operate substantially in the PRC where we primarily sell our products, a prolonged recession or a slowing of the PRC economy, or a decrease in business activity in our end markets could reduce demand for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a centrally planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. For approximately three decades, the PRC government has implemented economic reform measures to utilize market forces in the development of the PRC economy. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and are expected to be modified from time to time. Other political, economic and social factors may also lead to further readjustment or introduction of other reform measures. This process of reform may have a material impact on our operations in China or may adversely affect our results of operations as our current revenue is substantially derived from our operations in China. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in China’s political, economic and social conditions and by changes in laws, regulations or the interpretation or implementation thereof. 23 Table of Contents While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 30 years, the growth has been uneven geographically among various sectors of the economy, and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, as the Chinese economy experienced high rate of increase in residential property prices in recent years, to combat high property prices and prevent the economy from overheating, the PRC government adopted a number of measures, including raising statutory reserve rates for banks and controlling bank lending to certain industries or economic sectors. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in improving the growth rate of the Chinese economy. In addition, such measures, even if they benefit the overall Chinese economy in the long-term, may materially and adversely affect us if they reduce the demand for biodiesel or copper products. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by PRC labor laws and regulations. On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress promulgated the Labor Contract Law of the PRC, or the Labor Contract Law, effective January 1, 2008. On September 18, 2008, the State Council passed the relevant implementation regulations. The Labor Contract Law is aimed to provide employees greater protections with respect to establishing and terminating employment relationships. For example, the Labor Contract Law requires employers to enter into written contracts with their employees, and if an employer fails to enter into a written contract with an employee within one month after commencement of employment, the employer is required to pay the employee double its salary every month for up to 11 months. In addition, the Labor Contract Law calls for implementation of open-ended contracts rather than fixed-term contracts under certain circumstances. In particular, an employer cannot enter into a one-year or short-term contract with an employee upon the third consecutive renewal of the employment contract unless otherwise requested by the employee. As a result, the Labor Contract Law limits our discretion in the hiring and termination processes and could in turn affect our labor costs and our profitability. Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainty that could materially impact our operations. Our business and operations in China are governed by the legal system of China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since the late 1970s, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations dealing with such economic matters as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, as these laws and regulations are relatively new and continue to evolve, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve significant uncertainties and different degrees of inconsistency. For example, the PRC’s Ministry of Commerce released the Regulations for Oil Product Market and Regulations for Crude Oil Market, which were implemented in January 2007. The PRC Ministry of Commerce does not currently interpret these regulations as applicable to biodiesel producers. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC Ministry of Commerce will not change its interpretation. If we are ever subject to these regulations and are unable to obtain any required permits, we may be subject to monetary fines and our production of biodiesel may be temporarily or permanently interrupted. Furthermore, due to the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, the outcome of dispute resolution may not be as consistent or predictable as in other more developed jurisdictions, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 24 Table of Contents Our PRC subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on dividend payments that could materially impact our ability to receive dividends. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions paid by our intermediate holding companies, Carling Technology Limited (“Carling Technology”), Brightest Resources Limited (“Brightest Resources”), Joywin Technology Limited (“Joywin Technology”), Profit Faith Technology Limited (“Profit Faith Technology”), Engen, Gushan Holdings Limited (“Gushan Holdings”), Kim Yau Limited (“Kim Yau”), True Excel Holdings Limited (“True Excel”), and our PRC subsidiaries for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur or financing we may need for operations other than through our PRC subsidiaries. If our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our intermediate holding companies and us. Each of Chongqing Gushan, Hunan Gushan, Shanghai Gushan, Beijing Gushan, Fujian Gushan, Handan Gushan, Sichuan Gushan, Biomass, Jin Xin and Xiangbei, as a foreign-invested enterprise in China, is required under PRC laws and regulations to provide for statutory general reserves. Each is also required to allocate at least 10% of their after tax profits as reported in the PRC statutory financial statements to the statutory general reserves and has the right to discontinue allocations to these funds once the cumulative amount of such reserves has reached 50% of their registered capital. These statutory reserves are not available for distribution to the shareholders, except in a liquidation, and may not be transferred in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. As of December 31, 2011, the amount of these restricted portions was RMB78.4 million (US$12.5 million) in total for our PRC subsidiaries. Limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities to transfer funds to our intermediate holding companies and us in the form of dividends, loans or advances could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be indirect to our business, pay dividends, and otherwise fund and conduct our business. PRC laws and foreign exchange controls may affect our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Our operating PRC subsidiaries are subject to the PRC rules and regulations on currency conversion. The ability of our operating PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us may be restricted by these PRC foreign exchange control restrictions. We cannot assure you that the relevant regulations will be amended to our advantage such that the ability of our operating PRC subsidiaries to distribute dividends to us will not be adversely affected. Changes in foreign exchange regulations and fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We receive all of our revenue in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other currencies, except under certain circumstances. Current foreign exchange regulations have significantly reduced the PRC government’s foreign exchange control on current account transactions, including trade and service related to foreign exchange transactions and payment of dividends. The PRC government may, however, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions under certain circumstances. Any such change to the foreign exchange regulations may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements. The value of the Renminbi against other foreign currencies is subject to changes in the PRC’s policies and international economic and political developments. Under the current managed floating exchange rate system, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the PBOC, which are quoted daily based on the previous day’s inter-bank foreign exchange market rates. Since 1994, the official exchange rates for the conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars have been relatively stable. In July 2005, the PRC government discontinued pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. However, the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 1.0% per day and the PBOC regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate. Nevertheless, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long-term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments or deposits we make, if any. 25 Table of Contents Any change in the preferential tax rates or tax holidays we enjoy in China, or the status of our subsidiaries as foreign-invested enterprises, may reduce our net profits. Prior to January 1, 2008, a foreign-invested enterprise in China, or FIE, was typically subject to corporate income tax, or CIT, at the rate of 33%, which comprises 30% national income tax and 3% local income tax, on taxable income. The PRC government authorities provided various incentives to FIEs. For example, as a result of such preferential rates and tax holidays, each of Handan Gushan and Fujian Gushan enjoyed full exemption from CIT in the first two years followed by a 50% exemption from CIT in the next three years starting with their respective first profitable year after being an FIE, which began in 2005 for Handan Gushan and 2006 for Fujian Gushan. Sichuan Gushan enjoyed full exemption from CIT in 2005 and exemption from national income tax in 2006, followed by a 50% exemption from national income tax/unified CIT from 2007 to 2009. See Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new corporate income tax law, or the New CIT Law, under which foreign-invested enterprises, such as our PRC subsidiaries and domestic companies, would be subject to CIT at a uniform rate of 25%. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to entities that conduct business in encouraged sectors, whether FIEs or domestic companies. The New CIT Law became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New CIT law and the Notice on the Implementation of Transitional Preferential Policies on Corporate Income Tax, issued by the State Council on December 26, 2007, effective from January 1, 2008, the tax rate of enterprises that were established and were entitled to preferential tax rates or tax holidays before March 16, 2007 are to (i) in the case of preferential tax rates, gradually increase from the preferential tax rate to a 25% rate over a period of five years beginning January 1, 2008, or (ii) in the case of tax holidays, continue until the expiration of such term. Therefore, our subsidiaries in China will continue to be entitled to the tax holidays currently enjoyed by them until the expiration of the tax holiday term. We cannot assure you that any of our PRC subsidiaries will continue to be entitled to any preferential tax rates or tax holidays after the transition period expires. The Rules on Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the New M&A Rules, were promulgated on August 8, 2006 jointly by the Ministry of Commerce, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council of the PRC, or the SASAC, the PRC SAT, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of China, or SAFE, and came into effect on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rules were further amended on June 22, 2009. Under the New M&A Rules, FIEs established by way of acquisition of related domestic companies by offshore companies which are established or controlled by PRC domestic companies, enterprises or persons will not be entitled to be treated as FIEs except when, if the offshore companies offer to buy the company through a capital increase of the domestic companies, or increased capital to the enterprises established by the offshore companies after merger, the sum of capital increase is equal to more than 25% of the FIE’s registered capital. According to Chen & Co. Law Firm, our PRC legal advisor, PRC laws and regulations with specific effective dates generally have no retroactive effect. However, we cannot assure you that the New M&A Rules will not apply to our subsidiaries in the PRC. If the New M&A Rules are applicable to our subsidiaries in the PRC, our PRC subsidiaries may not be able to enjoy preferential treatment as FIEs and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The New CIT Law could affect tax exemptions on dividends received by us and our shareholders and increase our CIT rate. The New CIT Law provides that, if an enterprise incorporated outside the PRC has its “de facto management organization” located within the PRC, such enterprise may be recognized as a PRC tax resident enterprise and thus may be subject to CIT at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The Implementation Rules of the Corporate Income Tax Law prescribe that a “de facto management organization” means an organization that exercises substantive and overall management and control over the enterprise’s business operations, personnel, finance, property and other functions. Although the Implementation Rules provide a definition of “de facto management organization,” such definition has not been tested and there remains uncertainty as to the circumstances under which a non-PRC enterprise’s de facto management organization is considered to be located in the PRC. We may be deemed a PRC tax resident enterprise and therefore subject to a CIT rate of 25% on our worldwide income because a majority of the members of our management are located in China. 26 Table of Contents Moreover, under the New CIT Law, if we are categorized as a PRC tax resident enterprise, foreign ADS holders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax on dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares. The New CIT Law also provides that qualified dividends received by a PRC tax resident from another PRC tax resident are exempt from CIT. However, given the short history of this law, it remains unclear as to the detailed qualification requirements for such exemption and whether the dividends which the Company receives indirectly from our PRC subsidiaries will be exempt from CIT if it is recognized as a PRC tax resident enterprise. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect our financial position. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE notice, requiring PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of an offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. We cannot provide any assurances that all of our indirect owners who are PRC residents will register as required. The failure of these indirect owners to register as required or to amend their SAFE registrations in a timely manner pursuant to the SAFE notice or the failure of future indirect owners of our Company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE notice may subject such indirect owners to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in restrictions on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. The approval of the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission might have been required in connection with our initial public offering under a recently adopted PRC regulation, and, if approval was required, we could be subject to sanctions, fines and other penalties. The New M&A Rules, among other things, include provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle formed for purposes of overseas listing of equity interests in PRC companies and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals obtain the approval of the Chinese Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, prior to the listing and trading of such special purpose vehicle’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website procedures regarding its approval of overseas listings by special purpose vehicles. The CSRC approval procedures require the filing of a number of documents with the CSRC, which would take several months to complete. The application of the New M&A Rules remains unclear with no consensus currently existing among leading PRC law firms regarding the scope of the applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. The CSRC currently has not issued any definitive rule or interpretation concerning whether offerings like ours under our initial offering prospectus are subject to this new procedure. Our PRC counsel, Chen & Co. Law Firm, has advised us, based on their understanding of the current PRC laws and regulations as well as the procedures announced on September 21, 2006, that: • Because we completed our onshore restructuring before September 8, 2006, the effective date of the new regulation, and Gushan Environmental Energy Limited was formed for the sole purpose of facilitating private equity investment, this regulation does not require an application to be submitted to the CSRC for its approval of the issuance and sale of the ADSs and the ordinary shares, or the listing and trading of our ADSs on the NYSE; and 27 Table of Contents • The issuance and sale of the ADSs and the ordinary shares and the listing and trading of the ADSs on the NYSE did not conflict with or violate this new PRC regulation. If the CSRC or other PRC regulatory body subsequently determines that the CSRC’s approval was required for our initial public offering, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In that case, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China, limit our operating privileges in China or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our ADSs. Also, if the CSRC subsequently requires that we obtain its approval, we may be unable to obtain a waiver of the CSRC approval requirements, if and when procedures are established to obtain such a waiver. Any uncertainties and/or negative publicity regarding this CSRC approval requirement could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our ADSs. SAFE rules and regulations may limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from any of our future securities offerings to our subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect our business expansion and we may not be able to convert our U.S. dollar or Hong Kong dollar denominated cash balances deposited in Hong Kong into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. On August 29, 2008, SAFE promulgated Circular 142, a notice regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested company of foreign currency into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. The notice requires that the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and, unless otherwise stipulated, may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the registered capital of a foreign-invested company settled in Renminbi converted from foreign currencies. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be changed without SAFE’s approval, and may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of Circular 142 will result in severe penalties, such as heavy fines. As a result, Circular 142 may significantly limit our ability to transfer the net proceeds from any of our future securities offerings to our subsidiaries in the PRC, which may adversely affect our business expansion and we may not be able to convert our U.S. dollar or Hong Kong dollar denominated cash balances deposited in Hong Kong into Renminbi to invest in or acquire any other PRC companies. The outbreak of any severe transmissible disease in China, if uncontrolled, could adversely affect our results of operations. The outbreak of any severe communicable disease in China, such as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian flu or swine flu, if uncontrolled, could adversely affect the overall business sentiment and environment in China, which in turn may have an adverse impact on domestic consumption and, possibly, the overall gross domestic product, or GDP, growth in China. As our revenue is currently derived from our China operations, any contraction or slow down in domestic consumption and slowdown in the GDP growth of China will adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and future growth. In addition, if any of our employees is infected or affected by any severe communicable diseases outbreak, it could adversely affect or disrupt our production at the relevant plants and adversely affect our results of operations, as we may be required to close our facilities to prevent the spread of the disease. The spread of any severe communicable disease in China may also affect the operations of our customers and suppliers, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents All employee participants in our share option scheme who are PRC citizens may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional share incentive plans for our directors and employees under PRC law. To implement the Administrative Rule on Foreign Exchange Matters of Individuals and its related Implementing Rule, on February 15, 2012, SAFE issued the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Regulation for Domestic Individuals Participating in Equity Incentive Plans of Overseas Listed Companies, or Circular No. 7. For any share option plans which are covered by Circular No. 7 and are adopted by an overseas listed company, Circular No. 7 requires the employee participants conduct the foreign exchange registration of the share option plan. In addition, Circular No. 7 also requires the employee participant to follow a series of requirements, including written applications for participation of the share option plan, the evidence on the share option plan (such as the overseas listed company announcement). Our share option scheme is subject to Circular No. 7. We are planning to register our chare options issued to our employees in due course. The failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our share option scheme who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and may prevent us from further granting options under our share option scheme to our employees. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR ORDINARY SHARES AND ADSs If we fail to meet all applicable NYSE continued listing standards and the NYSE determines to delist our common stock, the delisting could adversely affect the market liquidity of our ADSs and the market price of our ADSs could decline. On May 1, 2012, we received a letter from the NYSE notifying us that we were not in compliance with one of the NYSE’s standards for continued listing of our ADSs on the exchange. Specifically, the NYSE indicated that it considers our Company to be “below criteria” because, as of December 31, 20111, our average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period was less than USD50 million and, at the same time, our total stockholders’ equity was less than USD50 million. On April 27, 2012, we reported that as of December 31, 2011, our total shareholders’ equity attributable to our Company was approximately USD36.2 million. As of December 31, 2011, our average global market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period was approximately USD27.5 million. Under NYSE continued listing rules, we have 90 days from the receipt of the letter to submit a plan advising the NYSE of definitive action we have taken, or are taking, that would bring us into conformity with the applicable standards within 18 months of receipt of the letter. If the NYSE staff determines that we have not made a reasonable demonstration of our ability to come into conformity with the applicable standards within 18 months, the NYSE staff will promptly initiate suspension and delisting procedures. Otherwise, if the NYSE staff accepts the plan, we will be subject to semi-annual review by the NYSE staff for compliance with the plan until either we are able to demonstrate that we have returned to compliance for a period of two consecutive quarters or until the expiration of the 18 month period. The NYSE staff will promptly initiate suspension and delisting procedures if we fail to meet the continued listing standards by the end of the 18-month period. If our ADSs are delisted then: (i) our market liquidity could be adversely affected and the market price of our ADSs could decline and (ii) our ability to obtain financing could also be adversely affected. Our principal shareholders exert significant influence over us and their interests may not coincide with yours. Our principal shareholders, acting individually or together, have significant influence over our business and could control all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of most directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change in control of our Company and make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may not always coincide with our interests as a company or the interest of other shareholders. Accordingly, these shareholders could cause us to enter into transactions or agreements with which you may not approve or make decisions with which you may disagree. 29 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may adversely affect the rights of holders of our ADSs and common shares. Our amended and restated articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. We have included the following provisions in our amended and restated articles of association: • At each annual general meeting, one-third of our directors (or, if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not less than one-third) must retire from office by rotation, and every director is subject to retirement at least once every three years. This provision would delay the replacement of a majority of our directors and would make changes to the board of directors more difficult than if such provision were not in place. • Our board of directors has the authority to establish from time to time one or more series of preferred shares without action by our shareholders and to determine, with respect to any series of preferred shares, the terms and rights of that series, including the designation of the series, the number of shares of the series, the dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, and the rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. • Our board of directors may issue series of preference shares without action by our shareholders to the extent authorized but unissued. Accordingly, the issuance of preference shares may adversely affect the rights of the holders of the ordinary shares. In addition, the issuance of preference shares may be used as an anti-takeover device without further action on the part of the shareholders. Issuance of preference shares may dilute the voting power of holders of ordinary shares. • Subject to applicable regulatory requirements, our board of directors may issue additional ordinary shares without action by our shareholders to the extent of available authorized but unissued shares. Our interests may conflict with those of the non-controlling shareholders of Engen and the selling shareholders of Xiangbei. We have a 75% ownership interest in Engen, the holding company of our copper products business, and there are two non-controlling shareholders that own the remaining 25% ownership interest in Engen, as of the date of this annual report. The selling shareholders of Xiangbei may acquire up to 14.17% of Engen’s enlarged share capital if Xiangbei is able to achieve the profit targets as specified in the relevant earn-out arrangement. These non-controlling shareholders have significant influence over management and operations of our copper products business, through, among other things, a representative on the board of directors of Jin Xin and in the management teams of Jin Xin and Xiangbei as well as shareholders’ voting rights. To the extent that there are any conflicts of interest between these non-controlling shareholders and us, we cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve them in a manner that will be in our best interests. These non-controlling shareholders may: • have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours; • take actions contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies and objectives; • be unable or unwilling to fulfill their obligations under the relevant joint venture arrangements or agreements; • have financial difficulties; • be acquired or undergo a change in control; or • have disputes with us. A serious dispute with these non-controlling shareholders or the early termination of our cooperation arrangements or agreements with them could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents The market price of our ADSs has been and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The market price for our ADSs has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly volatile in response to factors such as variations in our operating results; failure of our quarterly financial and operating results to meet market expectations or failure to meet our previously announced guidance; changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; sales or perceived sales of additional shares or ADSs; technological improvements in the biodiesel manufacturing process by us or our competitors; reduction or elimination of PRC government grants and economic incentives for the renewable energy industry; any change in applicable PRC law adversely affecting the renewable energy industry as a whole or the biodiesel industry in particular, including recent assessments of consumption tax on sales of our biodiesel products; news regarding any gain or loss of customers by us; news regarding recruitment or loss of key personnel by us or our competitors; adverse claims and allegations about our Company, our business, our financial reporting, our executives or directors, or other matters relating to us, see Item 4.B, “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Legal and Administrative Proceedings”; announcements of competitive developments, acquisitions or strategic alliances in the biodiesel or copper industry; general market conditions or other developments affecting the renewable energy industry; agricultural or other conditions in the PRC that may impact our supply of raw materials; and sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We may not be able to pay any dividends on our ordinary shares and ADSs. Under Cayman Islands law, we may only pay dividends out of our profits or our share premium account subject to our ability to service our debts as they become due in the ordinary course of business. Our ability to pay dividends therefore depends on our ability to generate sufficient profits. We cannot give any assurance that we will declare dividends of any amounts, at any rate or at all in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to the approval of our shareholders, and will depend upon our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial condition, the payment of our subsidiaries of cash dividends to us, our capital needs, future prospects and other factors that our directors may deem appropriate. You should refer to Item 8.A, “Financial Information—Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Dividend Policy” for additional information regarding our current dividend policy and the risk factor entitled “—Risks Relating to Business Operations in China—PRC laws and foreign exchange controls may affect our ability to receive dividends and other payments from our PRC subsidiaries” above for additional legal restrictions on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us. Future financing may cause a dilution in your shareholding or place restrictions on our operations. We may be required to raise additional funding to meet our working capital or capital expenditure requirements or issue additional ordinary shares for future acquisitions or other purposes in the future. If we raise such funding through issuance of new equity or equity-linked securities it may cause a dilution in the percentage ownership of our then existing shareholders. Alternatively, if we meet such funding requirements by way of additional debt financing, we may have restrictions placed on us through such debt financing arrangements which may: • limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek consents for the payment of dividends; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to pursue our business strategies; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to service our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund capital expenditure, working capital requirements and other general corporate needs; and • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. 31 Table of Contents Future sales or issuances, or perceived intentions of future sales or issuances, of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. Sales of our ADSs or ordinary shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by our existing shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place we deem appropriate. As of the date of this annual report, we had 190,831,943 ordinary shares outstanding, including 101,391,628 ordinary shares outstanding under the name of the depositary on behalf of the holders of 10,139,162 ADSs and 12,000,000 ordinary shares held in escrow in relation to the acquisition of Jin Xin. In addition, in relation to the acquisition of Xiangbei, we are subject to a three year earn-out arrangement under which we may be required to issue up to 20,000,000 ordinary shares by 2014 and if the volume weighted average trading price of our ordinary shares over the 30 calendar day period immediately after the public announcement of our 2013 annual financial results is below US$1.25 per ordinary share or US$12.50 per ADS, we may also be required to issue additional ordinary shares to Gold Wide and Silvery Boom up to a maximum value of RMB20 million. In addition, we may issue additional ADSs or ordinary shares for future acquisitions or other purposes. If we issue additional ADSs or ordinary shares, your ownership interests in our Company would be diluted and this in turn could have a material adverse effect on the price of our ADSs. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As an ADS holder, you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. Pursuant to our amended and restated articles of association, we may convene a shareholders’ meeting upon 10 clear days’ notice. When a shareholder’s meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we give timely notice, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical to make them available to you. Subject to the terms and conditions of the deposit agreement, the depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs, in which case it may determine not to make such a distribution. Neither we nor the depositary has any obligation to register ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities subject to such distribution under U.S. securities laws. Neither we nor the depositary have any obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time and from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed or at any time if we or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 32 Table of Contents You may not be able to participate in rights offerings or elect to receive stock dividends and may experience dilution of your holdings, and the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of our ADSs issued after exercise of rights may be restricted. If we offer holders of our ordinary shares any rights to subscribe for additional shares or any other rights, the depositary may make these rights available to you after consultation with us. We cannot make rights available to you in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered by us under the provisions of the Securities Act. We can give no assurance that we can establish an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in such rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings as a result. The depositary may allow rights that are not distributed or sold to lapse. In that case, you will receive no value for them. In addition, U.S. securities laws may restrict the sale, deposit, cancellation and transfer of ADSs issued after the exercise of rights. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands and our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law, Cap.22 (Law 3 of 1961, as consolidated and revised) of the Cayman Islands, which we will refer to as the Cayman Companies Law below, and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law may not be as clearly established as they are under statutes or judicial precedents in existence in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities law as compared to the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before federal courts of the United States. There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the Cayman Islands would (i) recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state or territory within the United States or (ii) entertain original actions brought in the courts of the Cayman Islands, against us or our directors and officers predicated upon the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities laws of any state or territory within the United States. The Cayman Islands would recognize as a valid judgment, a final and conclusive judgment in personam obtained in the federal or state courts in the United States under which a sum of money is payable (other than a sum of money payable in respect of multiple damages, taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or other penalty) and would give a judgment based thereon provided that: (a) such courts had proper jurisdiction over the parties subject to such judgment; (b) such courts did not contravene the rules of natural justice of the Cayman Islands; (c) such judgment was not obtained by fraud; (d) the enforcement of the judgment would not be contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands; (e) no new admissible evidence relevant to the action is submitted prior to the rendering of the judgment by the courts of the Cayman Islands; and (f) there is due compliance with the correct procedures under the laws of the Cayman Islands. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process and enforcing judgments against us and our management. Substantially all of our assets and our subsidiaries are located in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers reside within China and Hong Kong. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside of China upon most of our directors and officers, including with respect to matters arising under the U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC legal advisor, Chen & Co. Law Firm, has advised us that China is not a party to any treaties providing for reciprocal enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom, Japan or certain other jurisdictions. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in the United States or any other jurisdictions mentioned above in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. 33 Table of Contents As a result of being a public company, we are subject to financial reporting and other requirements for which our accounting internal audit and other management systems and resources may not be adequately prepared. We are subject to reporting and other obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, including the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. These requirements of Section 404 first applied to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2008. Section 404 requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although our management determined that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective at December 31, 2011, see Item 15, “Controls and Procedures,” in the future our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. If we fail to timely achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in the future, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with our reporting and other obligations, including Section 404. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. We do not expect to be a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending December 31, 2012 or in the foreseeable future. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects, and PFIC status is tested each taxable year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets, which may change from time to time. Because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market prices of our ordinary shares or ADSs, which has been fluctuating and is likely to continue to fluctuate, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder, as defined under Item 10.E, “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation,” held our ADSs or ordinary shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to such U.S. Holder. For more information on the tax consequences to you if we were treated as a PFIC, see Item 10.E, “Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Holders—Passive foreign investment company.” 34 Table of Contents Our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit reports included in this annual report may include audit documentation located in the Peoples’ Republic of China. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board currently cannot inspect audit documentation located in China and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issued an audit opinion in the financial statements included herein, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United Stateds and a firm registered with the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB. Since the significant portion of the audit is conducted in China and the work papers related to such portion are located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, the work papers of our auditors that are located in China are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of certain other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. However, the PCAOB is currently unable to inspect an auditor’s audit work related to a company’s operations in China and where such documentation of the audit work is located in China. As a result, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB’s oversight of our auditors through such inspections. The ability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of our auditors’ work papers in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may consequently lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. 35 Table of Contents 