ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the risks referred to elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risks, among others, may have affected, and in the future could affect, the Company and its subsidiaries’ business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks not discussed or not presently known to the Company or that the Company currently deems insignificant may also impact its business and stock price. Demand for products fluctuates significantly due to seasonality. In addition, changes in the weather and consumer confidence impact demand. Sales of our products are subject to seasonal and consumer buying patterns. Consumer demand in our markets can be reduced by unfavorable weather and weak consumer confidence. We manufacture throughout the year although our sales are concentrated in the second half of our fiscal year. This operating method requires us to anticipate demand of our customers many months in advance. If we overestimate or underestimate demand during a given year, we may not be able to adjust our production quickly enough to avoid excess or insufficient inventories, and that may in turn limit our ability to maximize our potential sales or maintain optimum working capital levels. 4 Table of Contents We have only a limited ability to pass through cost increases in our raw materials to our customers during the year. We generally enter into annual purchasing plans with our largest customers, so our ability to raise our prices during a particular year to reflect increased raw materials costs is limited. A significant portion of our net sales comes from major customers and the loss of any of these customers would negatively impact our financial results. In fiscal 2009, our three largest customers accounted for 28% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of a significant portion of the business of one or more of these key customers would significantly impact our net sales and profitability. Changes in environmental or other laws could require extensive changes in our operations or to our products. Our operations and products are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, emissions to air, discharges to water, noise, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste and other materials and health and safety matters. Additional engine emission regulations were phased in through 2008 by the State of California, and will be phased in between 2009 and 2012 by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. We do not expect these changes to have a material adverse effect on us, but we cannot be certain that these or other proposed changes in applicable laws or regulations will not adversely affect our business or financial condition in the future. Foreign economic conditions and currency rate fluctuations can reduce our sales. In fiscal 2009, we derived approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales from international markets, primarily Europe. Weak economic conditions in Europe could reduce our sales and currency fluctuations could adversely affect our sales or profit levels in U.S. dollar terms. Actions of our competitors could reduce our sales or profits. Our markets are highly competitive and we have a number of significant competitors in each market. Competitors may reduce their costs, lower their prices or introduce innovative products that could hurt our sales or profits. In addition, our competitors may focus on reducing our market share to improve their results. Disruptions caused by labor disputes or organized labor activities could harm our business. Currently, 10% of our workforce is represented by labor unions. In addition, we may from time to time experience union organizing activities in our non-union facilities. Disputes with the current labor union or new union organizing activities could lead to work slowdowns or stoppages and make it difficult or impossible for us to meet scheduled delivery times for product shipments to our customers, which could result in loss of business. In addition, union activity could result in higher labor costs, which could harm our financial condition, results of operations and competitive position. As of June 28, 2009, we had $281.1 million of long-term debt. In addition, we have the ability to incur additional borrowings on our revolving credit facility. Our level of debt could adversely affect our operating flexibility and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by the indenture for the notes and our other credit agreements could have important consequences, including the following: • we will have to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service rather than for our operations; • we may not be able to obtain additional debt financing for future working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes or may have to pay more for such financing; • some or all of the debt under our current or future revolving credit facilities will be at a variable interest rate, making us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates; • we could be less able to take advantage of significant business opportunities, such as acquisition opportunities, and to react to changes in market or industry conditions; • we may be more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • we may be disadvantaged compared to competitors with less leverage. 5 Table of Contents The terms of the indenture for the senior notes do not fully prohibit us from incurring substantial additional debt in the future and our revolving credit facilities permit additional borrowings, subject to certain conditions. As incremental debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks we now face could intensify. We expect to obtain the money to pay our expenses and to pay the principal and interest on the outstanding 8.875% senior notes, the credit facilities and other debt primarily from our operations or by refinancing part of our existing debt. Our ability to meet our expenses thus depends on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions in the markets where we operate and pressure from competitors. We cannot be certain that the money we earn will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have enough money, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets or borrow more money. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the revolving credit facilities and our indentures, may restrict us from adopting certain of these alternatives. We are restricted by the terms of the outstanding senior notes and our other debt, which could adversely affect us. The indenture relating to the senior notes and our revolving credit agreement include a number of financial and operating restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some corporate actions. These covenants could adversely affect us by limiting our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or to meet our capital needs. These covenants include, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: • pay dividends or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or to make certain other restricted payments; • incur indebtedness or issue preferred shares; • create liens; • make loans or investments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • agree to payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; • consolidate or merge with other entities, sell or lease all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • dispose of assets or the proceeds of sales of our assets. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains financial covenants that, among other things, require us to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and impose a maximum leverage ratio. Our failure to comply with restrictive covenants under the indenture governing the senior notes and our revolving credit facility could trigger prepayment obligations. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. Non-cash charges, including goodwill impairment, could impact our convenant compliance. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected by increased costs and rates. Current worldwide economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. General worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to the sequential effects of the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, increased energy costs, concerns about inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and they are causing U.S. and foreign OEMs and consumers to slow spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery, worldwide or in the specific end markets we serve. If the consumer and commercial lawn and garden markets significantly deteriorate due to these economic effects, our business, 6 Table of Contents financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn. As of June 28, 2009, goodwill was 16% of our total assets, and if we determine that goodwill has become impaired in the future, net income in such years may be adversely affected. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. We review goodwill and other intangibles at least annually for impairment and any excess in carrying value over the estimated fair value is charged to the results of operations. A reduction in net income resulting from the write down or impairment of goodwill would affect financial results and could have an adverse impact upon the market price of our common stock. If the current worldwide economic downturn continues, it could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill may be impaired. If we are required to record a significant change to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation, including product liability and warranty claims, that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are a party to litigation that arises in the normal course of our business operations, including product warranty and liability (strict liability and negligence) claims, contract disputes and environmental, asbestos, employment and other litigation matters. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability and warranty claims in the event that the use of our products is alleged to have resulted in injury or other damage. While we currently maintain general liability and product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms or that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage against potential liabilities that may arise. Any claims brought against us, with or without merit, may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations as a result of potential adverse outcomes, the expenses associated with defending such claims, the diversion of our management’s resources and time and the potential adverse effect to our business reputation. We have a defined benefit pension plan and future legislation or regulations intended to reform the funding and reporting of pension benefit plans could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows, as could changes in market conditions that impact the assumptions we use to measure our liabilities under these plans. Legislators and agencies of the U.S. government have proposed legislation and regulations to amend, restrict or eliminate various features of, and mandate additional funding of, pension benefit plans. If legislation or new regulations are adopted, we may be required to contribute additional cash to these plans, in excess of our current estimates. Market volatility in interest rates, investment returns and other factors could also adversely affect the funded status of our pension plans and require that we contribute additional cash to these plans. Moreover, future changes to the accounting and reporting standards related to pension plans could create significant volatility in our operating results. Our dependence on, and the price of, raw materials may adversely affect our profits. The principal raw materials used to produce our products are aluminum, copper and steel. We source raw materials on a global or regional basis, and the prices of those raw materials are susceptible to significant price fluctuations due to supply/demand trends, transportation costs, government regulations and tariffs, changes in currency exchange rates, price controls, the economic climate and other unforeseen circumstances. If we are unable to pass on raw material price increases to our customers, our future profitability may be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We are subject to various laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and human health and safety and have incurred and will continue to incur capital and other expenditures to comply with these regulations. Failure to comply with any environmental regulations could subject us to future liabilities, fines or penalties or the suspension of production. 7 Table of Contents The operations and success of our company can be impacted by natural disasters, terrorism, acts of war, international conflict and political and governmental actions, which could harm our business. Natural disasters, acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts and the actions taken by the United States and other governments in response to such events could cause damage or disrupt our business operations, our suppliers or our customers, and could create political or economic instability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business. Although it is not possible to predict such events or their consequences, these events could decrease demand for our products, could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products or could disrupt our supply chain. We may also be impacted by actions by foreign governments, including currency devaluation, tariffs and nationalization, where our facilities are located, which could disrupt manufacturing and commercial operations. We are subject to tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions, and the inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities related to our current and/or acquired businesses could adversely affect our operating results and financial position. We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those taxing jurisdictions. Due to the subjectivity of tax laws between those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from taxing authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. We have implemented, and Wisconsin law contains, anti-takeover provisions that may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our articles of incorporation contain provisions that could have the effect of discouraging or making it more difficult for someone to acquire us through a tender offer, a proxy contest or otherwise, even though such an acquisition might be economically beneficial to our shareholders. These provisions include a board of directors divided into three classes of directors serving staggered terms of three years each and the removal of directors only for cause and only with the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast in an election of directors. Each currently outstanding share of our common stock includes, and each newly issued share of our common stock will include, a common share purchase right. The rights are attached to and trade with the shares of common stock and are exercisable only under limited circumstances. The rights will become exercisable if a person or group acquires, or announces an intention to acquire, 20% or more of our outstanding common stock, subject to certain exceptions. The rights have some anti-takeover effects and generally will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire control of us without conditioning the offer on either redemption of the rights or amendment of the rights to prevent this dilution. The rights could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control. We are subject to the Wisconsin Business Corporation Law, which contains several provisions that could have the effect of discouraging non-negotiated takeover proposals or impeding a business combination. These provisions include: • requiring a supermajority vote of shareholders, in addition to any vote otherwise required, to approve business combinations not meeting adequacy of price standards; • prohibiting some business combinations between an interested shareholder and us for a period of three years, unless the combination was approved by our board of directors prior to the time the shareholder became a 10% or greater beneficial owner of our shares or under some other circumstances; • limiting actions that we can take while a takeover offer for us is being made or after a takeover offer has been publicly announced; and • limiting the voting power of shareholders who own more than 20% of our stock. Our common stock is subject to substantial price and volume fluctuations. The market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. Among the factors that could affect our common stock price are those previously discussed, as well as: • quarterly fluctuation in our operating income and earnings per share results; • decline in demand for our products; 8 Table of Contents • significant strategic actions by our competitors, including new product introductions or technological advances; • fluctuations in interest rates; • cost increases in energy, raw materials or labor; • changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; and • domestic and international economic and political factors unrelated to our performance. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 