Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial performance is subject to various risks and uncertainties. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, sales, gross profit, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is dependent on general economic conditions in our markets. Our sales depend, in part, on discretionary spending by our customers. Pressure on discretionary income brought on by economic downturns and slow recoveries, including housing market declines, rising energy prices, fiscal uncertainty and weak labor markets, may cause consumers to reduce the amount they spend on discretionary items. If recovery from any economic downturn is slow or prolonged, our growth, prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. General economic conditions and discretionary spending are beyond our control and are affected by, among other things: •consumer confidence in the economy; •unemployment trends; •consumer debt levels; •consumer credit availability; •the housing market; •gasoline and fuel prices; •interest rates and inflation; •price deflation, which may result from the introduction of low-cost imports; •slower rates of growth in real disposable personal income; •natural disasters; •national security concerns; •tax rates and tax policy; and •other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Increasing volatility in financial markets may cause some of the above factors to change with an even greater degree of frequency and magnitude. 15 Table of Contents Our ability to grow and remain profitable may be limited by direct or indirect competition in the retail bedding industry, which is highly competitive. The retail bedding industry in the United States is highly competitive. Participants in the bedding industry compete primarily based on store location, service, price, product selection, brand name recognition and advertising. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete favorably with our competitors in these areas. Our store competitors include regional and local specialty retailers of bedding (such as Sleepy's and Sleep Train), national and regional chains of retail furniture stores carrying bedding (such as Ashley Furniture, Haverty's and Rooms-To-Go), department store chains with bedding departments (such as Macy's, Sears and JC Penney), big box retailers (such as Wal-mart), warehouse clubs (such as Costco) and factory direct stores (such as Original Mattress). Additionally, retail furniture stores may open retail locations specifically targeted for specialty bedding as a way to directly compete with us and other specialty retailers. In the past, we have faced periods of heightened competition that materially affected our results of operations. Certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Accordingly, we may face periods of intense competition in the future that could have a material adverse effect on our planned growth and future results of operations. In addition, the barriers to entry into the retail bedding industry are relatively low. New or existing bedding retailers could enter our markets and increase the competition we face. In addition, manufacturers and vendors of mattresses and related products, including those whose products we currently sell, have entered the U.S. mattress retail market and now directly compete with us. Competition in existing and new markets may also prevent or delay our ability to gain relative market share. Any of the developments described above could have a material adverse effect on our planned growth and future results of operations. If we fail to successfully manage the challenges our planned growth poses or encounter unexpected difficulties during our expansion, our net sales and profitability could be materially adversely affected. One of our central long term objectives is to increase sales and profitability through market share leadership. Our ability to achieve market share leadership, however, is contingent upon our ability to (i) open stores in favorable locations, (ii) advertise our stores in an effective and cost-efficient manner and (iii) achieve operating results in new stores at the same level as our similarly situated current stores. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to open stores in new markets as required to achieve market leadership in such markets, identify and obtain favorable store sites, arrange favorable leases for stores or obtain governmental and other third-party consents, permits and licenses needed to open or operate stores in a timely manner, train and hire a sufficient number of qualified managers for new stores, attract a strong customer base and create brand familiarity in new markets, or successfully compete with established mattress stores in the new markets we enter. Moreover, if we are unable to open an adequate number of stores in a market, or if store-level profitability is lower than expectations, we may be unable to achieve the market presence necessary to justify the considerable expense of radio or television advertising and could be forced to rely upon less effective advertising mediums. Failure to open stores in favorable locations or to advertise in an effective and cost-efficient manner could place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to retailers who were more adept than us at managing these challenges, which, in turn, could negatively affect our overall operating results. 16 Table of Contents Our comparable-store sales and results of operations fluctuate due to a variety of economic, operating, industry and environmental factors and may not be fair indicators of our performance. Our comparable-store sales and operating results have experienced fluctuations, which can be expected to continue. Numerous factors affect our comparable-store sales results, including among others, the timing of new and relocated store openings, the relative proportion of new and relocated stores to mature stores, cannibalization resulting from the opening of new stores in existing markets, the acquisition and rebranding of competitors' stores in existing Mattress Firm® markets (including the timing of such acquisitions), changes in advertising and other operating costs, the timing and level of markdowns, changes in our product mix, weather conditions, retail trends, the retail sales environment, economic conditions, inflation, the impact of competition and our ability to execute our business strategy efficiently. As a result, comparable-store sales and operating results may fluctuate, and may cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. Therefore, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be a fair indicator of, and should not be relied upon as a measure of, our operating performance. We intend to aggressively open additional stores in our existing markets, which may diminish sales in our existing stores in those markets and strain our ability to find qualified personnel or divert resources from our existing stores, negatively affecting our overall operating results. Pursuant to our expansion strategy, we intend to aggressively open additional stores in our existing markets, whether through organic growth or acquisitions, including relocations of existing stores. Because our stores typically draw customers from their local areas, additional stores may draw customers away from nearby existing stores and may cause our comparable-store sales performance and customer counts at those existing stores to decline, which may adversely affect our overall operating results. In addition, our ability to open additional stores or convert and maintain acquired stores will be dependent on our ability to promote and/or recruit enough qualified field managers, store managers, assistant store managers and sales associates. The time and effort required to train and supervise a large number of new managers and associates and integrate them into our culture may divert resources from our existing stores. If we are unable to profitably open additional stores or convert and maintain acquired stores in existing markets and limit the adverse impact of those new or acquired stores on existing stores, it may reduce our comparable-store sales and overall operating results during the implementation of our expansion strategy. Our expansion strategy will be dependent upon, and limited by, the availability of adequate capital. Our expansion strategy will require additional capital for, among other purposes, opening new stores and entering into new markets. Such capital expenditures will include (i) researching real estate and consumer markets, (ii) lease, inventory, property and equipment costs, (iii) integration of new stores and markets into company-wide systems and programs and (iv) other costs associated with new stores and market entry expenses and growth. If cash generated internally is insufficient to fund capital requirements, or if funds are not available under our existing credit facility, we will require additional debt or equity financing. Adequate financing may not be available or, if available, may only be available on unfavorable terms. In addition, our debt agreements provide a limit on the amount of capital expenditures we may make annually. If we fail to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future or we are unable to make capital expenditures under our debt agreements, we could be forced to curtail our expansion strategies by reducing or delaying capital expenditures relating to new stores and new market entry. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fund our current plans for the opening of new stores or entry into new markets. Additionally, we expect to use cash generated internally to fund the purchase price of acquisitions that align with our expansion strategy. As a result, the available cash resources will be limited for other capital expenditures such as inventory, property and equipment costs. You may disagree with the purchase price we agree to pay or the use of cash for 17 Table of Contents acquisitions. If we fail to obtain sufficient capital to offset the use of cash for acquisitions, or if we are unable to realize a value from an acquisition sufficient to justify the purchase price we paid, other capital expenditures could be delayed and our overall operating results could be adversely affected. We may from time to time acquire complementary businesses, including operations of our franchisees, which will subject us to a number of risks. Any acquisitions we may undertake involve a number of risks, including: •failure of the acquired businesses to achieve the results we expect; •potential comparable-store sales declines as a result of sales culture integration challenges and conversion of acquired stores to the Mattress Firm® brand; •diversion of capital and management attention from operational matters; •our inability to retain key personnel of the acquired businesses; •risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; •the potential disruption and strain on our existing business and resources that could result from our planned growth and continuing integration of our acquisitions; and •customer dissatisfaction or performance problems at the acquired businesses. For example, during fiscal 2012, we acquired all of the equity interests of MGHC Holding Corporation (which operated Mattress Giant stores), 34 Mattress X-Press stores and 27 Mattress Source stores. If we are unable to fully integrate or successfully manage any business that we acquire, such as the operations of MGHC Holding Corporation or the Mattress X-Press or Mattress Source stores, we may not realize anticipated cost savings, improved efficiencies or revenue growth, which may result in reduced profitability or operating losses. In addition, we may face competition for acquisition candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition opportunities and may lead to higher acquisition prices. Moreover, acquisitions of businesses may require the issuance of additional equity financing, which would result in the dilution of our existing shareholder base. The realization of all or any of the risks described above could materially and adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations. A deterioration in our relationships with, or a deterioration of the brand images of, our primary suppliers could adversely affect our brand and customer satisfaction and result in reduced sales and operating results. We currently rely on Sealy, Simmons, Serta and Tempur-Pedic as our primary suppliers of branded mattresses. Purchases of products from these four manufacturers accounted for 78% of our mattress product costs for fiscal 2012. Because of the large volume of our business with these manufacturers and our use of their branding in our marketing initiatives, our success depends on the continued popularity and reputation of these manufacturers. Any (i) deterioration of their brand image, (ii) reduction in vendor incentives, (iii) adverse change in our relationship with any of them or (iv) an adverse change in their financial condition, production efficiency, product development or marketing capabilities could adversely affect our own brand and the level of our customers' satisfaction, among other things, which could result in reduced sales and operating results. We use Corsicana as a primary supplier of our private label mattresses, which accounted for 17% of our mattress product costs for fiscal 2012. If our relationships with Sealy, Simmons, Serta, Tempur-Pedic or Corsicana are terminated or otherwise impaired, or if any of them materially increase their prices, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We depend on a number of suppliers, and any failure by any of them to supply us with products may impair our inventory and adversely affect our ability to meet customer demands, which could result in a decrease in net sales. Through our operating subsidiaries, we maintain supply agreements with Sealy, Simmons, Serta, Tempur-Pedic and Corsicana, among others. Our current suppliers may not continue to sell products to us on acceptable terms or at all, and we may not be able to establish relationships with new suppliers to ensure delivery of products in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. We are also dependent on suppliers for assuring the quality of merchandise supplied to us. Our inability to acquire suitable merchandise in the future or the loss of one or more of our suppliers and our failure to replace them may harm our relationship with our customers and our ability to attract new customers, resulting in a decrease in net sales. Certain of our suppliers have proposed business combinations, which may reduce product offerings and increase pressures on pricing. We rely on a limited number of primary suppliers. The consolidation of two or more of these suppliers may reduce the number of products offered as the combined entity re-evaluates redundant product lines. Additionally, business combinations may increase the prices that we pay for the products in order to offset costs or otherwise take advantage of the suppliers' more significant position in the industry. We may not be able to pass any price increases on to our customers or indentify and obtain additional products to supplement our product offerings, which may have an adverse affect on our results of operation. If customers are unable to obtain third-party financing at acceptable rates, sales of our products could be materially adversely affected. We offer financing to consumers through third party consumer finance companies. In fiscal 2012, approximately 36% of sales were financed through third party consumer finance companies, and we plan to continue to offer such financing services. Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to customers. During much of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and continuing into fiscal 2009, we experienced significantly lower credit approval rates for our customers. Sales results were negatively affected as a result. Another reduction of credit availability to our customers could have a material impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to successfully anticipate consumer trends and our failure to do so may lead to loss of consumer acceptance of the products we sell, resulting in reduced net sales. Our success depends on our ability to anticipate and respond to changing trends and consumer demands in a timely manner. If we fail to identify and respond to emerging trends, consumer acceptance of the merchandise we sell and our image with current or potential customers may be harmed, which could reduce our net sales. For example, we have responded to the trend in favor of specialty bedding products and sleep systems, such as viscoelastic foam mattresses, by entering into new arrangements with suppliers and reallocating store display space without certainty of success or that existing relationships with conventional mattress suppliers will not be jeopardized. Additionally, if we misjudge market trends, we may significantly overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our gross profit and cash flow. Conversely, shortages of models that prove popular could also reduce our net sales. 19 Table of Contents We depend on a few key employees, and if we lose the services of certain of our principal executive officers, we may not be able to run our business effectively. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key executive, merchandising, marketing and sales personnel. Our executive officers include Steve Stagner, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Steve Fendrich, our Chief Strategy Officer, and Jim Black, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We have an employment agreement with each of Messrs. Stagner, Fendrich and Black. If any of these executive officers cease to be employed by us, we would have to hire additional qualified personnel. Our ability to successfully hire other experienced and qualified executive officers cannot be assured and may be difficult because we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our suppliers and other companies operating in our industry. As a result, the loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. Our substantial debt could adversely affect us, make us more vulnerable to adverse economic or industry conditions and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations or from funding our expansion strategy. We have a substantial amount of debt outstanding. As of January 29, 2013, we had $253.0 million of total indebtedness, consisting primarily of $247.7 million outstanding under the credit agreement with UBS Securities LLC and certain of its affiliates and other lenders entered into by Mattress Holding Corp., an indirect subsidiary of ours, as amended on November 5, 2012 (the "2012 Senior Credit Facility"). Our substantial indebtedness could have serious consequences, such as: •limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, expansion strategy or other purposes; •placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; •increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility in planning for, adverse changes in economic, industry and competitive conditions; and •increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates because borrowings under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility are subject to variable interest rates. The potential consequences of our substantial indebtedness make us more vulnerable to defaults and place us at a competitive disadvantage. A substantial or extended increase in interest rates could significantly affect our cash available to make scheduled payments on the 2012 Senior Credit Facility or to fund our expansion strategy. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and other liquidity requirements and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy such requirements, which may not be successful. We will be required to repay borrowings under the revolving portion of our 2012 Senior Credit Facility on January 18, 2015 and our term loan on January 18, 2014 and January 18, 2016. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The 2012 Senior Credit Facility contains negative covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: •incur indebtedness; 20 Table of Contents •create liens; •engage in mergers or consolidations; •sell assets (including pursuant to sale and leaseback transactions); •pay dividends and distributions or repurchase our capital stock; •make investments, acquisitions, loans or advances; •make capital expenditures; •repay, prepay or redeem certain indebtedness; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates; •enter into agreements limiting subsidiary distributions; •enter into agreements limiting the ability to create liens; •amend material agreements governing certain indebtedness; and •change our lines of business. A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit, or seek amendments to our debt agreements that would provide for terms more favorable to such lenders and that we may have to accept under the circumstances. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility. If the lenders under the 2012 Senior Credit Facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot guarantee that we will have sufficient assets to repay the 2012 Senior Credit Facility. If we fail to hire, train and retain qualified managers, sales associates and other employees our superior customer service could be compromised and we could lose sales to our competitors. A key element of our competitive strategy is to provide product expertise to our customers through our extensively trained, commissioned sales associates. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel and managers as needed in the future, including qualified sales personnel, our level of customer service may decline, which may decrease our net sales and profitability. Our future growth and profitability will be dependent in part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our advertising expenditures. Our advertising expenditures, which are the largest component of our sales and marketing expenses, are expected to continue to increase for the foreseeable future. A significant portion of our advertising expenditures are made in the higher cost radio and television formats. We cannot assure you that our planned increases in advertising expenditures or the advertising message that we select will result in increased customer traffic, sales, levels of brand name awareness or market share or that we will be able to manage such advertising expenditures on a cost-effective basis. Should we fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our advertising program, or should we fail to effectively manage advertising costs, this could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and profitability. 21 Table of Contents Our operating results are seasonal and subject to adverse weather and other circumstances, the occurrence of which during periods of expected higher sales may result in disproportionately reduced sales for the entire year. We historically have experienced and expect to continue to experience seasonality in our net sales and net income. We generally have experienced more sales and a greater portion of income during the second and third quarters of our fiscal year due to a concentration of holidays such as Memorial Day, the Fourth of July and Labor Day occurring in the summer and a higher number of home sales occurring in autumn. Over the past five fiscal years, (i) the second fiscal quarter generated 26.0% of our net sales, (ii) the third fiscal quarter generated 26.7% of our net sales and (iii) the other fiscal quarters generated 47.3% of our net sales. We expect this seasonality to continue for the foreseeable future. Any decrease in our second or third quarter sales, whether because of adverse economic conditions, a slowdown in home sales, adverse weather conditions, timing of holidays or acquisitions within our quarters or other unfavorable circumstances, could have a disproportionately adverse effect on net sales and operating results for the entire fiscal year. If we are unable to renew or replace our current store leases or if we are unable to enter into leases for additional stores on favorable terms, or if one or more of our current leases are terminated prior to expiration of their stated term and we cannot find suitable alternate locations, our growth and profitability could be negatively impacted. We currently lease all but one of our store locations. Many of our current leases provide for our unilateral option to renew for several additional rental periods at specific rental rates. Our ability to re-negotiate favorable terms on an expiring lease or to negotiate favorable terms for a suitable alternate location, and our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms for additional store locations could depend on conditions in the real estate market, competition for desirable properties, our relationships with current and prospective landlords or on other factors that are not within our control. Any or all of these factors and conditions could negatively impact our growth and profitability. Because our stores are generally concentrated in the Gulf Coast and Southeast regions of the United States, we are subject to regional risks. We have a high concentration of stores in the Gulf Coast and Southeast regions. We therefore have exposure to these local economies as well as weather conditions and natural disasters occurring in these regions, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other natural disasters. If these markets individually or collectively suffer an economic downturn or other significant adverse event, there could be an adverse impact on our comparable-store sales, net sales and profitability and our ability to implement our planned expansion program. Any natural disaster or other serious disruption in these markets due to fire, tornado, hurricane or any other calamity could damage inventory and could result in decreased sales. Our results may be adversely affected by fluctuations in raw material and energy costs. Our results may be affected by the prices of the components and raw materials used in the manufacture of the mattress products and accessories we sell. These prices may fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including: oil prices and other energy related costs, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, labor costs, competition, import duties, tariffs, currency exchange rates and government regulation. These fluctuations may result in an increase in our transportation costs for distribution, utility costs for our retail stores and overall costs to purchase products from our vendors. We may not be able to adjust the prices of our products, especially in the short-term, to recover these cost increases in raw materials and energy. A continual rise in raw material and energy costs 22 Table of Contents could adversely affect consumer spending and demand for our products and increase our operating costs, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to government regulation and audits from various taxing authorities, which could impose substantial costs on our operations or reduce our operational flexibility. Our products and our marketing and advertising programs are and will continue to be subject to regulation in the U.S. by various federal, state and local regulatory authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission. Compliance with these regulations may have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, our operations are subject to federal, state and local consumer protection regulations and other laws relating specifically to the bedding industry. For example, U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission has adopted rules relating to fire retardancy standards for the mattress and pillow industry. State and local bedding industry regulations vary among the states in which we operate but generally impose requirements as to the proper labeling of bedding merchandise, restrictions regarding the identification of merchandise as "new" or otherwise, controls as to hygiene and other aspects of product handling, sales and resales and penalties for violations. We and/or our suppliers may be required to incur significant expense to the extent that these regulations change and require new and different compliance measures. For example, new legislation aimed at improving the fire retardancy of mattresses or regulating the handling of mattresses in connection with preventing or controlling the spread of bed bugs could be passed, which could result in product recalls or in a significant increase in the cost of operating our business. In addition, failure to comply with these various regulations may result in penalties, the inability to conduct business as previously conducted or at all, and/or adverse publicity, among other things. We are also subject to Federal Trade Commission and state laws regarding the offering of franchises and their operations and management. State franchise laws may delay or prevent us from terminating a franchise or withholding consent to renew or transfer a franchise. We may, therefore, be required to retain an underperforming franchise and may be unable to replace the franchise, which could have an adverse effect on franchise revenues. Although we believe that we are in compliance with these bedding industry and franchise regulations, we may be required in the future to incur expense and/or modify our operations in order to ensure such compliance. We are also subject to audits from various taxing authorities. Changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate, could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. We are subject to varying, inconsistent laws and regulations of state and local jurisdictions, which could result in penalties and other costs if we are unable to establish and maintain compliance efficiently. As we expand our operations into new markets, we will be subject to tax and employee-related laws and regulations imposed by multiple state and local jurisdictions. Often these laws and regulations vary by jurisdiction and may not conform to our existing tax, payroll and other practices. We will be required to spend time and resources to identify any such laws and regulations, and establishing compliance may distract management or make our other processes and practices less efficient. If we are unable to efficiently identify, monitor and comply with these varying laws and regulations, penalties, fines and other costs may be imposed on the Company and our relationship with certain of our employees could be threatened, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents Our success is highly dependent on our ability to provide timely delivery to our customers, and any disruption in our delivery capabilities or our related planning and control processes may adversely affect our operating results. An important part of our success is due to our ability to deliver mattresses and bedding-related products quickly to our customers. This in turn is due to our successful planning and distribution infrastructure, including merchandise ordering, transportation and receipt processing, and the ability of our suppliers to meet our distribution requirements. Our ability to maintain this success depends on the continued identification and implementation of improvements to our planning processes, distribution infrastructure and supply chain. We also need to ensure that our distribution infrastructure and supply chain keep pace with our anticipated growth and increased number of stores. The cost of these enhanced processes could be significant and any failure to maintain, grow or improve them could adversely affect our operating results. Our business could also be adversely affected if there are delays in product shipments to us due to freight difficulties, difficulties of our suppliers involving strikes or other difficulties at their principal transport providers or otherwise. Our ability to control labor costs is limited, which may negatively affect our business. Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including (i) prevailing wage rates and overtime pay regulations, (ii) the impact of legislation or regulations governing healthcare benefits, such as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, (iii) labor relations, such as the Employee Free Choice Act, and (iv) health and other insurance costs. If our labor and/or benefit costs increase, we may not be able to hire or maintain qualified personnel to the extent necessary to execute our competitive strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. There can be no assurance that our warranty claims and comfort exchange return rates will remain within acceptable levels. Under the terms of our supply agreements with some of our major suppliers of conventional mattress products, we are currently compensated to assume the risk for returns resulting from product defects. We also provide our customers with a 100-day comfort satisfaction guarantee whereby, within 100 days from the date of original purchase, if the customer is not satisfied with the new mattress, we will exchange it for a mattress of equal or similar quality with no exchange fee, subject to standard transportation charges. Additionally, we provide our customers with a low price guarantee whereby if a customer finds the same or comparable sleep set for less than our displayed or advertised price within 100 days of purchase, we will beat our competitor's price on such comparable sleep set by 10% and refund the customer the difference. While we establish reserves at the time of sale for these exposures, there can be no assurance that our reserves adequately reflect this enhancement and no assurance that warranty claims and comfort exchange return rates will remain within acceptable levels. An increase in warranty claims and comfort exchange return rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we determine that our goodwill or other acquired intangible assets are impaired, we may have to write off all or a portion of the impaired assets. As of January 29, 2013, we had goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, of $359.0 million and $82.5 million, respectively. In fiscal 2008, as a result of the global economic crisis, we incurred goodwill and intangible asset impairments of $105.0 million, and we may incur goodwill and intangible asset impairments in the future. We recognized a $0.5 million impairment of goodwill related to two markets in fiscal 2010. Additionally in fiscal 2012 we incurred a $2.1 million intangible trade name impairment related to the Mattress Discounters trade name in relation to our decision to re-brand the majority of the stores in the Virginia Beach market to Mattress Firm® in fiscal 2013. Management is required to exercise significant judgment in identifying and assessing whether 24 Table of Contents impairment indicators exist, or if events or changes in circumstances have occurred, including market conditions, operating results, competition and general economic conditions. Current accounting guidance requires that we test our goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if warranted by the circumstances. Any changes in key assumptions about the business units and their prospects or changes in market conditions or other external factors could result in an impairment charge, and such a charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as we test goodwill impairment at the reporting unit level, which is each Company-operated metropolitan market, we may be required to incur goodwill impairment charges based on adverse changes affecting a particular metropolitan market, regardless of our overall performance. Such impairment charges may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Historically, we have experienced significant losses on store closings and impairment of store assets. There can be no guarantee that we will not experience similar or greater losses of this kind in the future due to (i) general economic conditions, (ii) competitive or operating factors, or (iii) other reasons, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We experienced losses on store closings and impairment of store assets of $2.5 million, $0.8 million and $1.1 million in fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively. These amounts include a non-cash impairment charge for long-lived assets to reduce the carrying value to estimated fair value based on our periodic assessment of whether projected future cash flows of individual stores are sufficient to recover the carrying value of the related assets. This non-cash impairment charge for long-lived assets consists primarily of store leasehold costs and related equipment and was $1.7 million, $0.1 million and $0.2 million during fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012, respectively. If we are forced to close stores in the future due to general economic conditions, competitive or operating factors or other reasons, the related losses may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in our expansion strategy and are required to close a large number of stores, the risk of incurring losses on store closings may increase. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own and depend on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no business operations of our own or material assets other than the stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all of our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements. The terms of the 2012 Senior Credit Facility restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring cash or other assets to us. We currently have no obligations that require cash funding from our subsidiaries. If there is an insolvency, liquidation or other reorganization of any of our subsidiaries, our stockholders likely will have no right to proceed against the assets of those subsidiaries. Creditors of those subsidiaries will be entitled to payment in full from the sale or other disposal of the assets of those subsidiaries before we, as an equity holder, would be entitled to receive any distribution from that sale or disposal. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends or make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to pay dividends or satisfy our obligations. Product safety issues, including product recalls, could harm our reputation, divert resources, reduce sales and increase costs. The products we sell in our stores are subject to regulation by the Consumer Product Safety Commission and similar state and international regulatory authorities. Such products could be subject to recalls and other actions by these authorities. Product safety concerns may require us to voluntarily remove selected products from our stores. Such recalls and voluntary removal of products can result in, 25 Table of Contents among other things, lost sales, diverted resources, potential harm to our reputation and increased customer service costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our business exposes us to personal injury and product liability claims, which could result in adverse publicity and harm to our brands and our results of operations. We are from time to time subject to claims due to the alleged injury of an individual in our stores or on our property. In addition, we may be subject to product liability claims for the products that we sell. Subject to certain exceptions, our purchase orders generally require the manufacturer to indemnify us against any product liability claims; however, if the manufacturer does not have insurance or becomes insolvent, there is a risk we would not be indemnified. Any personal injury or product liability claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend, resulting in adverse publicity, or damage to our reputation, and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, any negative publicity involving our vendors, employees and other parties who are not within our control could negatively impact us. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or we are unable to protect the integrity and security of our customers' information. We depend largely upon our information technology systems in the conduct of all aspects of our operations. If our information technology systems fail to perform as anticipated, we could experience difficulties in virtually any area of our operations, including but not limited to replenishing inventories or in delivering our products to store locations in response to consumer demands. In addition, we are in the process of replacing our enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system and commenced pilot market implementation of the point-of-sale and supply chain functionality in August 2012. As the new system is implemented, we may experience difficulties in transitioning from the old system, including loss of data and decreases in productivity as our personnel become familiar with the new system. Additionally, until all of our markets are operating on the new system, we will be required to operate and support the old system and the new system concurrently, which may increase costs and otherwise adversely affect our ability to operate our business. If we experience difficulties in implementing new or upgraded information systems or experience significant system failures, or if we are unable to successfully modify our information systems to respond to changes in our business needs, our ability to run our business could be adversely affected. It is also possible that our competitors could develop better e-commerce platforms than ours, which could negatively impact our internet sales. Any of these or other systems-related problems could, in turn, adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store certain personal information from individuals, such as our customers and suppliers, and we process customer payment card and check information, including via our internet platform. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer system and, if successful, misappropriate personal information, payment card or check information or confidential Company business information. In addition, a Company employee, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Any failure to maintain the security of our customers' confidential information, or data belonging to us or our suppliers, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, result in deterioration in our customers' confidence in us, subject us to potential litigation and liability, and subject us to fines and penalties, resulting in a possible material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial performance. 26 Table of Contents We may be responsible for theft and other liabilities at leased properties that we have vacated prior to the expiration of the lease term. From time to time, we may vacate a leased facility prior to the expiration of the lease term. Unless otherwise agreed by the landlord, we will continue to be responsible as the tenant under any such lease, which may include liability for any theft or other damage to the leased property. Our current insurance policy does not cover our liability for theft or certain other damages at vacated properties, and we have not identified additional insurance policies at commercially reasonable rates that would cover this exposure. Risks Related to Our Franchises A portion of our income is generated from our franchisees and our income could decrease if our franchisees do not conduct their operations profitably. As of January 29, 2013, approximately 13% of our stores were operated by franchisees. During fiscal 2010, fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2012 we derived $3.2 million, $4.7 million and $5.4 million, respectively, from franchise fees and royalties. Franchisees are independent contractors and are not our employees. We provide training and support to franchisees, but the quality of franchised store operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control, including (i) the closing of franchised stores, (ii) the failure of franchisees to comply with our standard operating procedures, (iii) failure to honor our national advertising campaign offers, (iv) effectively run their operations, or (v) the failure of franchisees to hire and adequately train qualified managers and other personnel could adversely affect our image and reputation, and the image and reputation of other franchisees, and could reduce the amount of our revenues and our franchise revenues, which could result in lower franchise fees and royalties to us. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, litigation with franchisees that may arise from time to time could be costly and the outcome thereof would be difficult to predict. We may be unable to audit or otherwise independently monitor the results of our franchisees, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Franchisees pay us franchise fees and royalties as a percentage of their gross sales. Although the agreements with our franchisees give us the right to audit their books and records, we may not be able to audit or otherwise readily and independently monitor franchisee performance on a regular basis or at all. As a result, we may experience delays or failures in discovering and/or recouping underpayments. In addition, to the extent that we rely on the integrity of the financial and other information from our franchisees, we may experience difficulties with respect to internal control, measurement and reporting of our franchise fee and royalty receipts and receivables. The existence of franchisees in some of our markets may restrict our ability to grow in those markets through acquisitions or organically. We enter into franchise agreements with our franchisees which, among other things, limit our ability to compete with the franchisees in the markets in which they operate. If we determine at some point in the future that we would like to grow in those markets through acquisitions or organically, our ability to do so may be substantially restricted under the franchise agreements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 