Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risk Related to Our Business and Our Projects—The expiration or termination of our power purchase agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not assume that revenues or operating margins under existing PPAs will necessarily be sustained after PPA expirations, since most original PPAs included capacity payments related to return of and return on original capital invested, and counterparties or evolving regional electricity markets may or may not provide similar payments under new or extended PPAs. 7 Table of Contents ASSET MANAGEMENT Our asset management strategy is to ensure that our projects receive appropriate preventative and corrective maintenance and incur capital expenditures, if required, to provide for their safety, efficiency, availability and longevity. We also proactively look for opportunities to optimize power, fuel supply and other agreements to deliver strong and predictable financial performance. In conjunction with our acquisition of the Partnership, the personnel that operated and maintained the Partnership's assets became employees of Atlantic Power. The staff at each of the facilities has extensive experience in managing, operating and maintaining the assets. Personnel at Capital Power Corporation regional offices that provided support in operations management, environmental health and safety, and human resources also joined Atlantic Power. As a result of the Ridgeline acquisition, we have added over thirty employees with extensive experience in renewable project development, construction and operations. In combination with the existing staff of Atlantic Power, we have a dedicated and experienced operations and commercial management organization that is well regarded in the energy industry. For operations and maintenance services at the 9 projects in our portfolio which we do not operate, we partner with recognized leaders in the independent power business. Most of our third-party operated projects are managed by CEM, PPMS and DPS, all of whom are experienced, well regarded energy infrastructure management services companies. In addition, employees of Atlantic Power with significant experience managing similar assets are involved in all significant decisions with the objective of proactively identifying value-creating opportunities such as contract renewals or restructurings, asset-level refinancings, add-on acquisitions, divestitures and participation at partnership meetings and calls. CEM is an energy infrastructure management company specializing in operations and maintenance, asset management and construction management for independent power producers and investors. With over 25 years of experience in operations and maintenance management, CEM focuses on revenue growth through continuous operational improvement and advanced maintenance concepts. Clients of CEM include independent power producers, municipalities and plant developers. CEM operates our Manchief facility. PPMS is a management services company focused on providing senior level energy industry expertise to the independent power market. Founded in 2006, PPMS provides management services to a large portfolio of solid fuel and gas-fired generating stations including our Selkirk and Chambers facilities. DPS, a subsidiary of Babcock and Wilcox Power Generation Group, Inc., is a power plant management services company that provides day-to-day operations, plant maintenance, and management of complex financial and regulatory issues. DPS operates our Cadillac and Gregory projects and will operate Piedmont upon achieving commercial operations. OUR ORGANIZATION AND SEGMENTS The following tables outline by segment our portfolio of power generating and transmission assets in operations and under construction as of February 27, 2012, including our interest in each facility. We believe our portfolio is well diversified in terms of electricity and steam buyers, fuel type, regulatory jurisdictions and regional power pools, thereby partially mitigating exposure to market, regulatory or environmental conditions specific to any single region. 8 Table of Contents As a result of our acquisition of the Partnership we revised our reportable business segments during the fourth quarter of 2011. The new operating segments are Northeast, Southeast, Northwest, Southwest and Un-allocated Corporate. Our financial results for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 have been presented to reflect these changes in operating segments. We revised our segments to align with changes in management's resource allocation and assessment of performance. These changes reflect our current operating focus. The segment classified as Un-allocated Corporate includes activities that support the executive offices, capital structure and costs of being a public registrant. These costs are not allocated to the operating segments when determining segment profit or loss. Un-allocated Corporate also includes Rollcast, a 60% owned company, which develops, owns and operates renewable power plants that use wood or biomass fuel and Ridgeline, which develops and operates wind and solar power projects. The sections below provide descriptions of our projects as they are aligned in our segment reporting structure for financial reporting purposes. See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements for information on revenue from external customers, Project Adjusted EBITDA (a non-GAAP measure), total assets by segment and revenue and total assets by geography. Northeast Segment Our Northeast segment accounted for 50.1%, 63.0% and 100.0% of consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively and total net generation capacity of 497 MW at December 31, 2012. Ontario Electricity Financial Corp ("OEFC") and Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation accounted for 69.2% and 15.5% of total revenues, respectively, from the Northeast segment for the year ended December 31, 2012. The table below provides the revenue and project income (loss) for the Northeast segment. See Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Project Income (Loss) by Segment for additional details on our project income (loss). Revenue ($ in thousands) Project (loss) income ($ in thousands) 2012 $ 221,043 $ (23,147 ) 2011 58,201 10,939 2010 596 6,994 9 Table of Contents Set forth below is a list of our Northeast projects in operation: Project Location Fuel Gross MW Economic Interest Net MW Primary Electric Purchasers Power Contract Expiry Customer Credit Rating (S&P)(5) Cadillac Michigan Biomass 40 100.00% 40 Consumers Energy 2028 BBB- Chambers(4) New Jersey Coal 262 40.00% 89 Atlantic City Electric(1) 2024 BBB+ 16 DuPont 2024 A Kenilworth New Jersey Natural Gas 30 100.00% 30 Merck, & Co., Inc. 2013(2) AA Curtis Palmer New York Hydro 60 100.00% 60 Niagara Mohawk Power Corperation 2027 A- Selkirk(4) New York Natural Gas 345 17.7%(3) 15 Merchant N/A NR 49 Consolidated Edison 2014 A- Calstock Ontario Biomass 35 100.00% 35 Ontario Electricity Financial Corp 2020 AA- Kapuskasing Ontario Natural Gas 40 100.00% 40 Ontario Electricity Financial Corp 2017 AA- Nipigon Ontario Natural Gas 40 100.00% 40 Ontario Electricity Financial Corp 2022 AA- North Bay Ontario Natural Gas 40 100.00% 40 Ontario Electricity Financial Corp 2017 AA- Tunis Ontario Natural Gas 43 100.00% 43 Ontario Electricity Financial Corp 2014 AA- (1)Includes a separate power sales agreement in which the project and Atlantic City Electric ("ACE") share profits on spot sales of energy and capacity not purchased by ACE under the base PPA. (2)The energy services agreement ("ESA") expired in July 2012 and has been extended on a month to month basis. We are currently in negotiations with Merck regarding a long-term extension of the ESA. (3)Represents our residual interest in the project after all priority distributions are paid to us and the other partners. (4)Unconsolidated entities for which the results of operations are reflected in equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. (5)Our customers are generally large utilities and other parties with investment-grade credit ratings, as measured by Standard & Poor's. Customers that have assigned ratings at the top end of the range have, in the opinion of the rating agency, the strongest capability for payment of debt or payment of claims, while customers at the bottom end of the range have the weakest capacity. Agency ratings are subject to change, and there can be no assurance that a ratings agency will continue to rate the customers, and/or maintain their current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot predict the effect that a change in the ratings of the customers will have on their liquidity or their ability to pay their debts or other obligations. Southeast Segment Our Southeast segment's continuing operations did not contribute to consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, as discussed below and accounted for total net generation capacity of 65 MW of our continuing operations at December 31, 2012. The table below provides the revenue and project income (loss) for the Southeast segment. See Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Project Income (Loss) by Segment for additional details on our project income (loss). On January 30, 2013 we entered into an agreement to sell the Florida Projects and have therefore excluded their revenue and project income (loss) from the table as they are recorded in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Revenue for these projects totaled $188.0 million, $160.9 million and $163.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Project income for these projects totaled 10 Table of Contents $13.6 million, $31.8 million and $19.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue ($ in thousands) Project (loss) income ($ in thousands) 2012 $ — $ 267 2011 — (13,074 ) 2010 — 5,171 Set forth below is a list of our Southeast projects in operation: Project Location Fuel Gross MW Economic Interest Net MW Primary Electric Purchasers Power Contract Expiry Customer Credit Rating (S&P)(5) Auburndale(1) Florida Natural Gas 155 100.00% 155 Progress Energy Florida 2013 BBB+ Lake(1) Florida Natural Gas 121 100.00% 121 Progress Energy Florida 2013 BBB+ Pasco(1) Florida Natural Gas 121 100.00% 121 Tampa Electric Company 2018 BBB+ Orlando(4) Florida Natural Gas 129 50.00% 46 Progress Energy Florida 2023 BBB+ 19 Reedy Creek Improvement District 2013(2) A-(3) (1)On January 30, 2013 we entered into an agreement to sell the Florida Projects. (2)Upon the expiry of the Reedy Creek PPA, the associated capacity and energy will be sold to Progress Energy Florida under the terms of its current agreement. (3)Fitch Ratings' credit ratings on Reedy Creek Improvement District bonds. (4)Unconsolidated entity for which the results of operations are reflected in equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. (5)Our customers are generally large utilities and other parties with investment-grade credit ratings, as measured by Standard & Poor's. Customers that have assigned ratings at the top end of the range have, in the opinion of the rating agency, the strongest capability for payment of debt or payment of claims, while customers at the bottom end of the range have the weakest capacity. Agency ratings are subject to change, and there can be no assurance that a ratings agency will continue to rate the customers, and/or maintain their current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot predict the effect that a change in the ratings of the customers will have on their liquidity or their ability to pay their debts or other obligations. Project under construction Project Location Fuel Gross MW Economic Interest Net MW Primary Electric Purchasers Power Contract Expiry Customer Credit Rating (S&P) Expected Year of Commercial Operations Piedmont Georgia Biomass 54 98.0% 53 Georgia Power 2032 A 2013 Northwest Segment Our Northwest segment accounted for 13.6%, 9.6% and 0.0% of consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively and total net generation capacity of 480 MW at December 31, 2012. British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority ("BC Hydro") provided for 13.6% of total consolidated revenues and 100% of total revenues from the Northwest segment for the year ended December 31, 2012. 11 Table of Contents The table below provides the revenue and project income (loss) for the Northwest segment. See Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Project Income (Loss) by Segment for additional details on our project income (loss). Revenue ($ in thousands) Project (loss) income ($ in thousands) 2012 $ 59,814 $ (6,604 ) 2011 8,983 (862 ) 2010 — 326 Set forth below is a list of our Northwest projects in operation: Project Location Fuel Gross MW Economic Interest Net MW Primary Electric Purchasers Power Contract Expiry Customer Credit Rating (S&P)(2) Mamquam British Columbia Hydro 50 100.00% 50 British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority 2027 AAA Moresby Lake British Columbia Hydro 6 100.00% 6 British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority 2022 AAA Williams Lake British Columbia Biomass 66 100.00% 66 British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority 2018 AAA Idaho Wind(1) Idaho Wind 183 27.56% 50 Idaho Power Co. 2030 BBB Rockland Wind Farm Idaho Wind 80 50.00% 40 Idaho Power Co. 2036 BBB Goshen North(1) Idaho Wind 125 12.50% 16 Southern California Edison 2030 BBB+ Meadow Creek Idaho Wind 120 100.00% 120 PacifiCorp 2032 A- Frederickson(1) Washington Natural Gas 250 50.15% 50 Benton Co. PUD 2022 A+ 45 Grays Harbor PUD 2022 A 30 Franklin, Co. PUD 2022 AA- Koma Kulshan(1) Washington Hydro 13 49.80% 7 Puget Sound Energy 2037 BBB (1)Unconsolidated entities for which the results of operations are reflected in equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. (2)Our customers are generally large utilities and other parties with investment-grade credit ratings, as measured by Standard & Poor's. Customers that have assigned ratings at the top end of the range have, in the opinion of the rating agency, the strongest capability for payment of debt or payment of claims, while customers at the bottom end of the range have the weakest capacity. Agency ratings are subject to change, and there can be no assurance that a ratings agency will continue to rate the customers, and/or maintain their current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot predict the effect that a change in the ratings of the customers will have on their liquidity or their ability to pay their debts or other obligations. Southwest Segment Our Southwest segment's continuing operations accounted for 35.9%, 27.1% and 0.0% of consolidated revenue in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively and total net generation capacity of 1,075 MW from continuing operations at December 31, 2012. The table below provides the revenue and project income for the Southwest segment. See Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Project Income (Loss) by Segment for additional details on our project income (loss). We expect to enter into an agreement to sell Path 15 in the remaining part of the first quarter of 2013 and have therefore excluded its revenue and project income from the table as they are recorded in income from discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of operation for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue for Path 15 was $28.7 million, $30.1 million and 12 Table of Contents $31.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Project income for Path 15 was $5.1 million, $7.6 million and $7.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Revenue ($ in thousands) Project income ($ in thousands) 2012 $ 158,092 $ 11,259 2011 25,414 10 2010 — 2,911 Set forth below is a list of our Southwest projects in operation: Project Location Type MW Economic Interest Net MW Primary Electric Purchasers Power Contract Expiry Customer Credit Rating (S&P)(5) Naval Station California Natural Gas 47 100.00% 47 San Diego Gas & Electric 2019 A Naval Training Center California Natural Gas 25 100.00% 25 San Diego Gas & Electric 2019 A North Island California Natural Gas 40 100.00% 40 San Diego Gas & Electric 2019 A Oxnard California Natural Gas 49 100.00% 49 Southern California Edison 2020 BBB+ Path 15(1) California Transmission NA 100.00% NA Various through Cailfornia ISO NA BBB+ to A Greeley(4) Colorado Natural Gas 72 100% 72 Public Service Company of Colorado 2013 A- Manchief Colorado Natural Gas 300 100% 300 Public Service Company of Colorado 2022 A- Morris Illinois Natural Gas 177 100% 77 Merchant N/A NR 100 Equistar Chemicals, LP 2023 BBB- Delta-Person(2)(3) New Mexico Natural Gas 132 40.0% 53 Public Service Company of New Mexico 2020 BBB- Canadian Hills Oklahoma Wind 300 99.0% 200 Southwestern Electric Power Company 2032 BBB 49 Oklahoma Municipal Power Authority 2037 NR 48 Grand River Dam Authority 2032 A Gregory(3)(4) Texas Natural Gas 400 17.10% 59 Fortis Energy Marketing & Trading 2013 A- 9 Sherwin Alumina 2020 NR (1)We expect to enter into an agreement to sell Path 15 in the remaining part of the first quarter. The sale would be expected to close in the first half of 2013. (2)On December 7, 2012, we entered into an agreement to sell our 40% interest in Delta-Person. The sale is expected to close in the third quarter of 2013. (3)Unconsolidated entities for which the results of operations are reflected in equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. (4)We are currently considering various options regarding Greeley and Gregory for when the PPAs expire in August and December 2013, respectively. (5)Our customers are generally large utilities and other parties with investment-grade credit ratings, as measured by Standard & Poor's. Customers that have assigned ratings at the top end of the range have, in the opinion of the rating agency, the strongest capability for payment of debt or payment of claims, while customers at the bottom end of the range have the weakest capacity. Agency ratings are subject to change, and there can be no assurance that a ratings agency will continue to rate the customers, and/or maintain their current ratings. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. We cannot predict the effect that a change in the ratings of the customers will have on their liquidity or their ability to pay their debts or other obligations. POWER INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Historically, the North American electricity industry was characterized by vertically-integrated monopolies. During the late 1980s, several jurisdictions began a process of restructuring by moving 13 Table of Contents away from vertically integrated monopolies toward more competitive market models. Rapid growth in electricity demand, environmental concerns, increasing electricity rates, technological advances and other concerns prompted government policies to encourage the supply of electricity from independent power producers. According to the North American Electric Reliability Council's ("NERC") Long-Term Reliability Assessment, published in November 2012, summer peak demand within the United States in the ten-year period from 2013 through 2022 is projected to increase at a compound annual growth rate of approximately 1.4%, while winter peak demand in Canada is projected to increase 1.3%. NERC's Reliability Assessment also projects increased dependence on natural gas and renewables for electricity capacity. The adoption of highly efficient combined-cycle technology and the economic viability of shale gas have made gas-fired generation the primary choice for new capacity with almost 100 gigawatts ("GW"), or approximately 50% of planned generation capacity expected over the next 10 years. The share of capacity from renewable resources will also continue to grow. In 2012, renewable generation made up 15.6% of all on-peak capacity resources and is expected to reach almost 17% percent in 2022. The increase of gas and renewable capacity will be offset by large-scale retirements of coal-fired generation plants. NERC projects 71 GW of fossil-fired generation retirement by 2022, with over 90% retiring by 2017 primarily due to potential and existing federal environmental regulations and low natural gas prices. The non-utility power generation industry In the independent power generation sector, electricity is generated from a number of energy sources, including natural gas, coal, water, waste products such as biomass (e.g., wood, wood waste, agricultural waste), landfill gas, geothermal, solar and wind. Our 29 power generation projects in operation are non-utility electric generating facilities that operate in the North American electric power generation industry. The electric power industry is one of the largest industries in the United States, generating retail electricity sales of approximately $371 billion in 2011, based on information published by the Energy Information Administration in November 2012. A growing portion of the power produced in the United States and Canada is generated by non-utility generators. According to the Energy Information Administration, independent power producers represented approximately 35% of total net generation in 2011, the most recent year for which data are available. Independent power producers sell the electricity that they generate to electric utilities and other load-serving entities (such as municipalities and electric cooperatives) by way of bilateral contracts or open power exchanges. The electric utilities and other load-serving entities, in turn, generally sell this electricity to industrial, commercial and residential customers. COMPETITION The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we compete with utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers. In recent years, there has been increasing competition among generators in an effort to obtain power sales agreements, and this competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets where supply has surpassed demand plus appropriate reserve margins. In addition, many states and regions have aggressive demand side management programs designed to reduce current load and future local growth. The U.S. power industry is continuing to undergo consolidation which may provide attractive acquisition and investment opportunities, although we believe that we will continue to confront significant competition for those opportunities and, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, we may be unable to effect acquisitions or investments on attractive terms, if at all. We compete for acquisition opportunities with numerous private equity, infrastructure and pension funds, Canadian and U.S. independent power firms, utility genco subsidiaries and other strategic and 14 Table of Contents financial players. Our competitive advantages include our access to capital, experienced management team, diversified projects and stability of project cash flow. INDUSTRY REGULATION Overview Our facilities and operations are subject to laws and regulations that govern, among other things, transactions by and with purchasers of power, including utility companies, the development and construction of generation facilities, the ownership and operations of generation facilities, access to transmission, and the geographical location, zoning, land use and operation aspects of our facilities and properties, including environmental matters. In the United States, the power generation and sale aspects of our projects are primarily regulated by the FERC, although most of our projects benefit from the special provisions accorded to Qualifying Facilities ("QFs") or Exempt Wholesale Generators ("EWGs"). In Canada, electricity generation is subject primarily to provincial regulation. Our projects in British Columbia are thus subject to different regulatory regimes from our projects in Ontario. Regulation—generating projects (i)United States Eighteen of our power generating projects are QFs under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended ("PURPA") and related FERC regulations. A QF falls into one or both of two primary classes, both of which would facilitate one of PURPA's goals to more efficiently use fossil fuels to generate electricity than typical utility plants. The first class of QFs includes energy producers that generate power using renewable energy sources such as wind, solar, geothermal, hydro, biomass or waste fuels. The second class of QFs includes cogeneration facilities, which must meet specific fossil fuel efficiency requirements by producing both electricity and steam versus electricity only. The generating projects with QF status and which are currently party to a PPA with a utility or have been granted authority to charge market-based rates are exempt from FERC rate-making authority. The FERC has granted seven of the projects the authority to charge market-based rates based primarily on a finding that the projects lack market power. The projects with QF status are also exempt from state regulation respecting the rates of electric utilities and the financial or organizational regulation of electric utilities. However, state regulators review the prudency of utilities entering into PPAs entered into by QFs and the siting of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold by QFs under PPAs that required approval by state authorities. PURPA, as initially implemented by the FERC, generally required that vertically integrated electric utilities purchase power from QFs at their avoided costs. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 (the "EP Act of 2005"), however, established new limits on PURPA's requirement that electric utilities buy electricity from QFs to certain markets that lack competitive characteristics. The Delta-Person and Pasco projects are EWGs under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 ("PUHCA"). The projects with EWG status are also exempt from state regulation respecting the rates of electric utilities, and the projects with EWG and QF status are exempt from regulations under PUHCA. Notwithstanding their status as QFs and EWGs, our projects remain subject to various aspects of FERC regulation, including those relating to power marketer status and to oversight of mergers, acquisitions and investments relating to utilities under the Federal Power Act, as amended by the EP Act of 2005. All of our projects are also subject to reliability standards developed and enforced by NERC. NERC is a self-regulatory non-governmental organization which has statutory responsibility to 15 Table of Contents regulate bulk power system users, generation and transmission owners and operators through the adoption and enforcement of standards for fair, ethical and efficient practices. Pursuant to its authority, NERC has issued, and the FERC has approved, a series of mandatory reliability standards. Users, owners and operators of the bulk power system can be penalized significantly for failing to comply with the FERC-approved reliability standards. We have designated our Manager of Operational and Regulatory Compliance to oversee compliance with liability standards and an outside law firm specializing in this area advises us on FERC and NERC compliance, including annual compliance training for relevant employees. (ii)British Columbia, Canada The vast majority of British Columbia's power is generated or procured by BC Hydro. BC Hydro is one of the largest electric utilities in Canada. BC Hydro is owned by the Province of British Columbia and is regulated by the British Columbia Utilities Commission (the "BCUC"), which is governed by the Utilities Commission Act (British Columbia) and is responsible for the regulation of British Columbia's public energy utilities including publicly owned and investor owned utilities (i.e. independent power producers). BC Hydro is generally required to acquire all new power (beyond what it already generates from existing BC Hydro plants) from independent power producers. All contracts for electricity supply, including those between independent power producers and BC Hydro, must be filed with and approved by the BCUC as being "in the public interest." The BCUC may hold a hearing in this regard. Furthermore, the BCUC may impose conditions to be contained in agreements entered into by public utilities for electricity. The BCUC has adopted the NERC standards as being applicable to, among others, all generators of electricity in British Columbia, including independent power producers. In addition, the BCUC has adopted a number of other standards, including the Western Electricity Coordinating Council ("WECC") standards. As a practical matter, WECC typically administers standards compliance on the BCUC's behalf. The Clean Energy Act, which became law in British Columbia in 2010, sets out British Columbia's energy objectives. This Act states, among other things, that British Columbia aims to accelerate and expand the development of clean and renewable energy sources British Columbia to, among other things, achieve energy self-sufficiency by 2016, promote economic development and job creation and continue to work toward the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. This Act also explicitly states that British Columbia will encourage the use of waste heat, biogas and biomass to reduce waste. This Act is consistent with the British Columbia Government Energy Plan, introduced in 2009, which favors clean and renewable energy sources such as hydroelectric, wind and wood waste electricity generation. BC Hydro is required to meet these objectives and submit reports to the BCUC updating on its progress. Other provincial regulators in British Columbia having authority over independent power producers include the British Columbia Safety Authority, the Ministry of Environment and the Integrated Land Management Bureau. (iii)Ontario, Canada In Ontario, the Ontario Energy Board ("OEB") is an administrative tribunal with overall responsibility for the regulation and supervision of the natural gas and electricity industries in Ontario and with the authority to grant or renew, and set the terms for, licenses with respect to electricity generation facilities, including our projects. No person is permitted to generate electricity in Ontario without a license from the OEB. 16 Table of Contents The OEB's general functions include: •Determination of the rates charged for regulated services in the electricity sector; •Licensing of market participants; •Inspections, particularly with respect to compelling production of records and information; •Formulation of rules to govern the conduct of participants in the electricity market; •Market monitoring and reporting, including on anti-competitive practice; •Consumer advocacy; and •Enforcement and compliance. The OEB has the authority effectively to modify licenses by adopting "codes" that are deemed to form part of the licenses. Furthermore, any violations of the license or other irregularities in the relationship with the OEB can result in fines. While the OEB provides reports to the Ontario Minister of Energy, it generally operates independently from the government. However, the Minister may issue policy directives (with Cabinet approval) concerning general policy and the objectives to be pursued by the OEB, and the OEB is required to implement such policy directives. A number of other regulators and quasi-governmental entities play a role in electricity regulation in Ontario, including the Independent Electricity System Operator ("IESO"), Hydro One, the Electrical Safety Authority ("ESA"), OEFC and the Ontario Power Authority ("OPA"). The IESO is responsible for administering the wholesale electricity market and controlling Ontario's transmission grid. The IESO is a non-profit corporation whose directors are appointed by the government of Ontario. The IESO's "Market Rules" form the regulatory framework for the operation of Ontario's transmission grid and electricity market. The Market Rules require, among other things, that generators meet certain equipment and performance standards and certain system reliability obligations. The IESO may enforce the Market Rules by imposing financial penalties. The IESO may also terminate, suspend or restrict participatory rights. In November 2006, the IESO entered into a memorandum of understanding with NERC, in which it recognized NERC as the "electricity reliability organization" in Ontario. In addition, the IESO has also entered into a similar MOU with the Northeast Power Coordinating Council (the "NPCC"). IESO is accountable to NERC and NPCC for compliance with NERC and NPCC reliability standards. While IESO may impose Ontario-specific reliability standards, such standards must be consistent with, and at least as stringent as, NERC's and NPCC's standards. The OPA was established in 2005 to, among other things, procure new electricity generation. As a result, the OPA enters into electricity generation contracts with electricity generators in Ontario from time to time. Although we are not presently party to any such contracts, we may seek to enter into such contracts if and when the opportunity arises. Most of the operating assets of the entity formerly known as Ontario Hydro were transferred, in or around 1998, to Hydro One, IESO and a third company called Ontario Power Generation Inc. The remaining assets and liabilities were kept in OEFC. Once all of OEFC's debts (approximately $27.1 billion as of March 2011) have been retired, it will be wound up and its assets and liabilities will be transferred directly to the Government of Ontario. The Green Energy Act became law in Ontario in 2009 renewable electricity generation technologies, including via a feed-in tariff program. This Act states that the Government of Ontario is, among other things, committed to fostering the growth of renewable energy projects, to removing barriers to and promoting opportunities for renewable energy projects and to promoting a green economy. 17 Table of Contents Carbon emissions In the United States, during the past several years government action addressing carbon emissions has been focused on the regional and state level. Beginning in 2009, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative ("RGGI") was established in ten Northeast and Mid-Atlantic states as the first cap-and-trade program in the United States for CO2 emissions. These states have varied implementation plans and schedules. The two states where we have project interests, New York and New Jersey, also provide cost mitigation for independent power projects with certain types of power contracts. At the end of 2011, New Jersey withdrew from the RGGI program. California's cap-and-trade program governing greenhouse gas emissions became effective for the electricity sector on January 1, 2013. Other states and regions in the United Sates are developing similar regulations and it is possible that federal climate legislation will be established in the future. At the federal level, President Obama has identified climate change as one of the major priorities for his second term. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has taken several recent actions respecting CO2 emissions, including issuance of a finding that such emissions endanger public health and welfare, its final regulations to require annual reporting of greenhouse gas emissions by certain source categories considered to be large emitters, its final regulations to establish emissions standards for new fossil fuel power plants, and its anticipated proposed regulations to establish emissions standards for existing fossil fuel power plants. Additionally, more than half of the U.S. states and most Canadian provinces have set mandates requiring certain levels of renewable energy production and/or energy efficiency during target timeframes. This includes generation from wind, solar and biomass. In order to meet CO2 reduction goals, changes in the generation fuel mix are forecasted to include a reduction in existing coal resources, higher reliance on natural gas and renewable energy resources and an increase in demand-side resources. Investments in new or upgraded transmission lines will be required to move increasing renewable generation from more remote locations to load centers. Regulatory incentives The U.S. regulatory environment has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable energy generation and, in some cases, transmission. Certain U.S. and Canadian government policies support renewable power generation and other clean infrastructure technologies and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating energy projects in the regions in which we operate. The viability of our current and potential future renewable energy projects, including our windpower projects, is largely contingent on public policy mechanisms and favorable regulatory incentives, including production and investment tax credits, stimulus grants from the U.S. Treasury and other types of cash grants, loan guarantees, accelerated depreciation tax benefits, state renewable portfolio standards, and regional carbon trading plans. For example, the American Taxpayer Relief Act was passed by Congress on January 1, 2013 and signed into law by the President on January 2, 2013. This legislation extended production tax credits and investment tax credits for projects that start construction prior to January 1, 2014 and extended bonus depreciation for projects that are placed in service prior to January 1, 2014. Under present law, the production tax credits provide an income tax credit of 2.2 cents/kilowatt-hour for the production of electricity from utility-scale wind turbines. The EP Act of 2005 also provides incentives for various forms of electric generation technologies. Governments from time to time may renew their policies that support renewable energy and consider actions to make the policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. Certain of our projects are eligible to receive grants and similar government incentives for the construction of renewable energy facilities. We expect our Piedmont and Meadow Creek projects to receive stimulus grant proceeds from the U.S. Treasury in the first half of 2013. However, because such 18 Table of Contents grant proceeds are subject to Congressional action, we cannot provide any assurances with respect to the timing, availability or amount, if any, of such grants. We have also reduced expectations regarding the value of renewable energy credits in certain renewable projects. Tax equity investors in Canadian Hills are eligible for the income tax credit from production tax credits. See Item 1A. "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business and Our Projects—Our renewable energy projects are subject to uncertainties regarding regulatory incentives." EMPLOYEES As of February 27, 2013, we had 310 employees, 207 in the United States and 103 in Canada. Of our Canadian employees, 65 are covered by two collective bargaining agreements. During 2012, we did not experience any labor stoppages or labor disputes at any of our facilities. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This section highlights specific risks that could affect our Company. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting our Company. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones related to our business and are not necessarily listed in the order of their importance. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or if the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur or continue to occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Projects The expiration or termination of our power purchase agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition Power generated by our projects, in most cases, is sold under PPAs that expire at various times. Currently, our PPAs are scheduled to expire between August 2013 and 2037. See Item 1. Business—Our Organization and Segments for details about our projects' PPAs and related expiration dates. In addition, these PPAs may be subject to termination prior to expiration in certain circumstances, including default by the project. When a PPA expires or is terminated, it may be difficult for us to secure a new PPA, if at all, or the price received by the project for power under subsequent arrangements may be reduced significantly. It is possible that subsequent PPAs may not be available at prices that permit the operation of the project on a profitable basis. If this occurs, the affected project may temporarily or permanently cease operations and the value of the project may be impaired such that we would be required to record an impairment loss under applicable accounting rules. The loss of significant PPAs, or the breach by the other parties to such contracts that prevents us from fulfilling our obligations thereunder, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our projects depend on their electricity, thermal energy and transmission services customers and there is no assurance that these customers will perform their obligations or make required payments Each of our projects relies on one or more PPAs, steam sales agreements or other agreements with one or more utilities or other customers for a substantial portion of its revenue. At times, we rely on a single customer or a limited number of customers to purchase all or a significant portion of a project's output. In 2012, the largest customers of our power generation projects, including projects recorded 19 Table of Contents under the equity method of accounting, are Public Service Company of Colorado, Southwestern Electric, and OEFC which purchase approximately 18%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of the net electric generation capacity of our projects. If a customer stops purchasing output from our power generation projects or purchases less power than anticipated, such customer may be difficult to replace, if at all. Further concentration of our customers would increase our dependence on any one customer. Our cash flows and results of operations, including the amount of cash available to make payments on our indebtedness, are highly dependent upon customers under such agreements fulfilling their contractual obligations. There is no assurance that these customers will perform their contractual obligations or make required payments. Certain of our projects are exposed to fluctuations in the price of electricity, which may have a material adverse effect on the operating margin of these projects and on our business, results of operations and financial condition Those of our projects operating without a PPA or PPAs based on spot market pricing for some or all of their output will be exposed to fluctuations in the wholesale price of electricity. In addition, should any of the long-term PPAs expire or terminate, the relevant project will be required to either negotiate a new PPA or sell into the electricity wholesale market, in which case the prices for electricity will depend on market conditions at the time, which may not be favorable. The open market wholesale prices for electricity are very volatile. Long and short-term power prices may fluctuate substantially due to other factors outside of our control, including: •changes in generation capacity in the electricity markets, including the addition of new supplies of power from existing competitors or new market entrants as a result of the development of new generation facilities, expansion of existing facilities or additional transmission capacity; •electric supply disruptions, including plant outages and transmission disruptions; •changes in power transmission infrastructure; •fuel transportation capacity constraints; •weather conditions; •changes in the demand for power or in patterns of power usage; •development of new fuels and new technologies for the production of power; •development of new technologies for the production of natural gas; •availability of competitively priced renewable fuel sources; •available supplies of natural gas, crude oil and refined products, and coal; •interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation; •availability and price of emission credits; •geopolitical concerns affecting global supply of oil and natural gas; •general economic conditions which impact energy consumption in areas where we operate; and •power market, fuel market and environmental regulation and legislation. We are also exposed to market power prices at the Selkirk, Morris and Chambers projects. At Chambers, our utility customer has the right to sell a portion of the plant's output into the spot power market if it is economical to do so, and the Chambers project shares in the profits from these sales. In addition, during periods of low spot electricity prices the utility takes less generation, which negatively affects the project's operating margin. At Morris, approximately 56% of the facility's capacity is 20 Table of Contents currently not contracted. The facility can generate and sell this excess capacity into the grid at market prices. If market prices do not justify the increased generation, the project has no requirement to sell power at market. At Selkirk, approximately 23% of the capacity of the facility is not contracted and is sold at market prices or not sold at all if market prices do not support the profitable operation of that portion of the facility. As a result, fluctuations in the price of electricity may have a material adverse effect on the operating margins of these facilities and on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our projects depend on third-party suppliers under fuel supply agreements, and increases in fuel costs may adversely affect the profitability of the projects The amount of energy generated at the projects is highly dependent on suppliers under certain fuel supply agreements fulfilling their contractual obligations. The loss of significant fuel supply agreements or an inability or failure by any supplier to meet its contractual commitments may adversely affect our results. Upon the expiration or termination of existing fuel supply agreements, we or our project operators will have to renegotiate these agreements or may need to source fuel from other suppliers. We may not be able to renegotiate these agreements or enter into new agreements on similar terms. For example, the operating margin at our 50% owned Orlando project is exposed to changes in natural gas prices following the expiration of its fuel contract at the end of 2013. There can be no assurance as to availability of the supply or pricing of fuel under new arrangements, and it can be very difficult to accurately predict the future prices of fuel. If our suppliers are unable to perform their contractual obligations or we are unable to renegotiate our fuel supply agreements, we may seek to meet our fuel requirements by purchasing fuel at market prices, exposing us to market price volatility and the risk that fuel and transportation may not be available during certain periods at any price. Changes in market prices for natural gas, biomass, coal and oil may result from the following: •weather conditions; •seasonality; •demand for energy commodities and general economic conditions; •disruption or other constraints or inefficiencies of electricity, gas or coal transmission or transportation; •additional generating capacity; •availability and levels of storage and inventory for fuel stocks; •natural gas, crude oil, refined products and coal production levels; •changes in market liquidity; •governmental regulation and legislation; and •our creditworthiness and liquidity, and the willingness of fuel suppliers/transporters to do business with us. Revenues earned by our projects may be affected by the availability, or lack of availability, of a stable supply of fuel at reasonable or predictable prices. The price we can obtain for the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel or delivery costs. To the extent possible, our projects attempt to match fuel cost setting mechanisms in supply agreements to energy payment formulas in the PPA and to provide for indexing or pass-through of fuel costs to customers. In cases where there is no pass-through of fuel costs, we often attempt to mitigate the market price risk of changing commodity costs through the use of hedging strategies. To the extent that 21 Table of Contents costs are not matched well to PPA energy payments, pass through of fuel costs is not allowed or hedging strategies are unsuccessful, increases in fuel costs may adversely affect our results of operation. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our energy payments at our Orlando project are subject to fluctuations as the energy payments are comprised of a fuel component based on the cost of coal consumed at a nearby coal-fired generating station. Our projects may not operate as planned The ability of our projects to meet availability requirements and generate the required amount of power to be sold to customers under the PPAs are primary determinants of the amount of cash that will be distributed from the projects to us, and that will in turn be available for dividends paid to our shareholders. There is a risk of equipment failure due to wear and tear, more frequent and/or larger than forecasted downtimes for equipment maintenance and repair, latent defect, design error or operator error, or force majeure events, among other things, which could adversely affect revenues and cash flow. Unplanned outages of generation facilities, including extensions of scheduled outages due to mechanical failures or other problems occur from time to time and are an inherent risk of our business. Unplanned outages typically increase our operation and maintenance expenses and may reduce our revenues or require us to incur significant costs as a result of obtaining replacement power from third parties in the open market to satisfy our obligations. In general, our power generation projects transmit electric power to the transmission grid for purchase under the PPAs through a single step up transformer. As a result, the transformer represents a single point of vulnerability and may exhibit no abnormal behavior in advance of a catastrophic failure that could cause a temporary shutdown of the facility until a replacement transformer can be found or manufactured. To the extent that we suffer disruptions of plant availability and power generation due to transformer failures or for any other reason, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the amount of cash available for dividends may be adversely affected. We provide letters of credit under our $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility for contractual credit support at some of our projects. If the projects fail to perform under the related project-level agreements, the letters of credit could be drawn and we would be required to reimburse our senior lenders for the amounts drawn. The effects of weather and climate change may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition Our operations are affected by weather, which affects demand for electricity. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase summer cooling electricity demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase winter heating electricity and gas demand and revenues. Moderate temperatures adversely affect the usage of energy and resulting revenues. To the extent that weather is warmer in the summer or colder in the winter than assumed, we may require greater resources to meet our contractual commitments. These conditions, which cannot be accurately predicted, may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition by causing us to seek additional capacity at a time when wholesale markets are tight or to seek to sell excess capacity at a time when markets are weak. To the extent climate change contributes to the frequency or intensity of weather related events, our operations and planning process could be impacted, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Revenues from windpower projects are highly dependent on suitable wind and associated weather conditions and in the absence of such suitable conditions, our wind energy projects may not meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted revenues We own interests in five windpower projects, which are subject to substantial risks. The energy and revenues generated at a wind energy project are highly dependent on climatic conditions, particularly wind conditions, which are variable and difficult to predict. Turbines will only operate within certain wind speed ranges that vary by turbine model and manufacturer, and there is no assurance that the wind resources at any given project site will fall within such specifications. We base our investment decisions with respect to each wind energy project on the findings of wind studies conducted on-site before starting construction. However, actual climatic conditions at a project site, particularly wind conditions, may not conform to the findings of these wind studies, and, therefore, our wind energy projects may not meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted revenues. Revenues from hydropower projects are highly dependent on suitable precipitation and associated weather conditions and in the absence of such suitable conditions, our hydropower projects may not meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted revenues. We own interests in four hydropower projects, which are subject to substantial risks. The energy and revenues generated at a hydro energy project are highly dependent on climatic conditions, particularly precipitation patterns, which are variable and difficult to predict for any given year. We base our investment decisions with respect to each hydro energy project on the historical stream flow records for the area. However, actual climatic conditions in any given year may not meet the historical averages which would impair our ability to meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted revenues. U.S., Canadian and/or global economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition Our business may be affected by changes in U.S., Canadian and/or global economic conditions, including inflation, deflation, interest rates, availability of capital, consumer spending rates and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Uncertainty about global economic conditions may cause consumers to alter behaviors that may directly or indirectly reduce energy spending, which could have a material adverse effect on demand for our product. Volatility in the financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Financial markets have also recently been affected by concerns over U.S. fiscal policy, as well as the U.S. federal government's debt ceiling and federal deficit. These concerns have also renewed discussions relating to a potential downgrade of the long-term sovereign credit rating of the United States. Any actions taken by the U.S. federal government regarding the debt ceiling or the federal deficit or any action taken or threatened by ratings agencies, could significantly impact the global and U.S. economies and financial markets. Any such economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks that are beyond our control, including but not limited to acts of terrorism or related acts of war, natural disasters, or other catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition Man-made events, such as acts of terror and governmental responses to acts of terror, could adversely affect general economic conditions, which could have a material impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Strategic targets, such as energy-related facilities, may be 23 Table of Contents at greater risk of future terrorist activities than other domestic targets. Our projects may be targets of terrorist activities, as well as events occurring in response to or in connection with them, that could cause environmental repercussions and/or result in full or partial disruption of the ability of the projects to generate and/or transmit electricity. Any such environmental repercussions or other disruption could result in a significant decrease in revenues or significant reconstruction or remediation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our projects could also be impacted by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning activity, hurricanes, tropical storms, winter storms, tornadoes, wind, seismic activity, more frequent and more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, sea level rise and other related phenomena. Severe weather or other natural disasters could be destructive or otherwise disrupt our operations, which could result in increased costs. We maintain standard insurance against catastrophic losses, which are subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions, however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses. Future significant weather related events could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, natural disasters and other events that have an adverse effect on the economy in general may adversely affect our operations and our ability to raise capital. Our business faces significant operating hazards, natural disaster risks and other hazards such as fire and explosions and insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses Our business involves significant operating hazards related to the generation of electricity, including hazards related to acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment, structural collapse, machinery failure, and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition, we are exposed to natural disaster risks and other hazards such as fire and explosions. These and other hazards can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, including for environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and property damage and fines and/or penalties. While we believe that the projects maintain an amount of insurance coverage that is adequate and similar to what would be maintained by a prudent owner/operator of similar facilities, and are subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions which are customary or reasonable given the cost of procuring insurance, current operating conditions and insurance market conditions, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be offered on an economically feasible basis, nor that all events that could give rise to a loss or liability are insurable or insured, nor that the amounts of insurance will at all times be sufficient to cover each and every loss or claim that may occur involving our assets or operations of our projects. Any losses in excess of those covered by insurance, which may include a significant judgment against any project or project operator, the loss of a significant permit or other approval or the imposition of a significant fine or penalty, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and future prospects and could adversely affect dividends to our shareholders. Our operations are subject to the provisions of various energy laws and regulations Our business is subject to extensive Canadian and U.S. federal, state, provincial and local laws and regulation. Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause us to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines and/or civil or criminal liability. 24 Table of Contents Generally, in the United States, our projects are subject to regulation by the FERC regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and rates, as well as by state regulators regarding the prudency of utilities entering into PPAs entered into by QF projects and the siting of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold by QF projects under PPAs that required approval by state authorities. The EP Act of 2005 also limited the requirement that electric utilities buy electricity from QFs in certain markets that have certain competitive characteristics, potentially making it more difficult for our current and future projects to negotiate favorable PPAs with these utilities. If any project were to lose its status as a QF, it would lose its ability to make sales to utilities on favorable terms. Such project may no longer be entitled to exemption from provisions of PUHCA of 2005 or from certain provisions of the Federal Power Act and state law and regulations. Loss of QF status could also trigger defaults under covenants to maintain that status in the PPAs and project-level debt agreements, and if not cured within allowed cure periods, could result in termination of agreements, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements. In such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Notwithstanding their status as QFs and EWGs, our facilities remain subject to numerous FERC regulations, including those relating to power marketer status, approval of mergers, acquisitions and investments relating to utilities, and mandatory reliability rules and regulations delegated to NERC. Any violation of these rules and regulations could subject us to significant fines and penalties and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The EP Act of 2005 and other federal and state programs also may provide incentives for various forms of electric generation technologies, which may subsidize our competitors. The U.S. regulatory environment has undergone significant changes in the last several years due to state and federal policies affecting wholesale competition and the creation of incentives for the addition of large amounts of new renewable energy generation and, in some cases, transmission. These changes are ongoing and we cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on our business. In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism as well as proposals to re-regulate the markets. Other proposals to re-regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation process. If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is reversed, discontinued, or delayed, or new law or other future regulatory developments are introduced, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Generally, in Canada, our projects are subject to energy regulation primarily by the relevant provincial authorities. In addition, our projects are subject to Canada's corporate, commercial and other laws of general application to businesses. Our projects require licenses, permits and approvals which can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain, comply with and renew, as required, all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for these facilities. If we cannot comply with and renew as required all applicable licenses, permits and approvals, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The introductions of new laws, or other future regulatory developments, may have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Risks with respect to the two Canadian provinces where we currently have projects are addressed further below. 25 Table of Contents (i)British Columbia The Government of British Columbia has a number of specific statutes and regulations that govern the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity within British Columbia. Our projects in that province are subject to these laws. These statutes can be changed by act of the provincial legislature and the regulations may be changed by the provincial cabinet. Such changes could have a material effect on our projects. The Clean Energy Act, which became law in British Columbia in 2010, sets out British Columbia's energy objectives, one of which is the generation of at least 93% of the electricity in British Columbia from clean or renewable resources. BC Hydro is required to submit resource plans outlining how it will meet these objectives and requires the province to be energy self-sufficient by 2016. BC Hydro is generally required to acquire all new power (beyond what it already generates from existing BC Hydro plants) from independent power producers. Two of our three British Columbia projects currently sell all of their electricity to BC Hydro, and the third project sells substantially all of its electricity to BC Hydro. Therefore, changes to BC Hydro's energy procurement policies and financial difficulties of or regulatory intervention in respect of BC Hydro and/or the province's energy objectives could impact the market for electricity generated by our British Columbia projects although BC Hydro is currently limited by regulation to undertaking efficiency improvements at its existing facilities and only undertaking development of new generation facilities/projects with BCUC approval. There is a risk that the regulatory regime could adversely affect the amount of power that BC Hydro purchases from our projects and the competitive environment or the price at which BC Hydro is willing to purchase power from our British Columbia projects The Utilities Commission Act governs the BCUC, which is responsible for the regulation of British Columbia's public energy utilities, which include publicly owned and investor owned utilities (i.e., independent power producers). All contracts for electricity supply, including those between independent power producers and BC Hydro, must be filed with and approved by the BCUC as being "in the public interest." The BCUC may hold a hearing in this regard. Furthermore, the BCUC may impose conditions to be contained in agreements entered into by public utilities for electricity. Consequently, power procurement is controlled by the BCUC and, as a result, our potential contracts with BC Hydro may be subject to terms that adversely affect us. (ii)Ontario The government of Ontario has a number of specific statutes and regulations that govern our projects in that province. The statutes can be changed by act of the provincial legislature and the regulations may be changed by the provincial cabinet. Such changes could have a material effect on our projects. In Ontario, the OEB is an administrative tribunal with authority to grant or renew, and set the terms for, licenses with respect to electricity generation facilities, including our projects. No person is permitted to generate electricity in Ontario without a license from the OEB. While all of our Ontario projects are currently licensed, the OEB has the authority to effectively modify the licenses by adopting "codes" that are deemed to form part of the licenses. Furthermore, any violations of the license or other irregularities in the relationship with the OEB can result in fines. While the OEB provides reports to the Ontario Minister of Energy, it generally operates independently from the government. However, the Minister may issue policy directives (with Cabinet approval) concerning general policy and the objectives to be pursued by the OEB, and the OEB is required to implement such policy directives. Thus, the OEB's regulation of our projects is subject to potential political interference, to a degree. A number of other regulators and quasi-governmental entities play a role, including the IESO, Hydro One, the Energy Safety Authority, OEFC and OPA. All these agencies may affect our projects. 26 Table of Contents Noncompliance with federal reliability standards may subject us and our projects to penalties Many of our operations are subject to the regulations of NERC, a self-regulatory non-governmental organization which has statutory responsibility to regulate bulk power system users and generation and transmission owners and operators. NERC groups the users, owners, and operators of the bulk power system into 17 categories, known as functional entities—e.g., Generator Owner, Generator Operator, Purchasing-Selling Entity, etc.—according to the tasks they perform. The NERC Compliance Registry lists the entities responsible for complying with federal mandatory reliability standards and the FERC, NERC, or a regional reliability organization may assess penalties against any responsible entity found to be in noncompliance. Violations may be discovered or identified through self-certification, compliance audits, spot checking, self-reporting, compliance investigations by NERC (or a regional reliability organization) and the FERC, periodic data submissions, exception reporting, and complaints. The penalty that could be imposed for violating the requirements of the standards is a function of the Violation Risk Factor. Penalties for the most severe violations can reach as high as $1 million per violation, per day, and our projects could be exposed to these penalties if violations occur, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our projects are subject to significant environmental and other regulations Our projects are subject to numerous and significant federal, state, provincial and local laws, including statutes, regulations, by-laws, guidelines, policies, directives and other requirements governing or relating to, among other things: air emissions; discharges into water; ash disposal; the storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of dangerous goods and hazardous, residual and other regulated materials, such as chemicals; the prevention of releases of hazardous materials into the environment; the prevention, presence and remediation of hazardous materials in soil and groundwater, both on and off site; land use and zoning matters; and workers' health and safety matters. Our facilities could experience incidents, malfunctions or other unplanned events that could result in spills or emissions in excess of permitted levels and result in personal injury, penalties and property damage. As such, the operation of our projects carries an inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities (including potential civil actions, compliance or remediation orders, fines and other penalties), and may result in the projects being involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings relating to such matters. We have implemented environmental, health and safety management programs designed to regularly improve environmental, health and safety performance, but there is no guarantee that such programs will fully and effectively eliminate the inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities related to the operation of our projects. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and this trend may continue. In the United States, the Clean Air Act and related regulations and programs of the Environmental Protection Agency (the "EPA") extensively regulate the air emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds by power plants. In March 2005, the EPA promulgated the Clean Air Interstate Rule ("CAIR"), which requires 27 states and the District of Columbia to curb emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from power plants through participation in a cap and trade system or more aggressive state-by-state emissions limits. Although implementation of the CAIR is underway, the EPA is subject to a court order to develop a more stringent replacement rule. Other more stringent EPA air emission regulations currently being implemented include the more stringent national ambient air quality standards for sulfur dioxide, issued in June 2010, and for fine particulate matter, issued in December 2012, and the new mercury and air toxics emissions standards for power plants, issued in December 2011. Meeting these new standards, when implemented, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents The U.S. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act has historically exempted fossil fuel combustion wastes from hazardous waste regulation. However, in June 2010 the EPA proposed two alternative sets of regulations governing coal ash. One alternative would designate coal ash as "special waste" and bring ash impoundments at coal-fired power plants under federal regulations governing hazardous solid waste under Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Another alternative would regulate coal ash as a non-hazardous solid waste. If the EPA determines to regulate coal ash as a hazardous waste, our 40% owned coal-fired facility may be subject to increased compliance obligations and associated costs that may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similar increasingly stringent environmental regulations also apply to our projects in British Columbia and Ontario. Significant costs may be incurred for either capital expenditures or the purchase of allowances under any or all of these programs to keep the projects compliant with environmental laws and regulations. The projects' PPAs do not allow for the pass through of emissions allowance or emission reduction capital expenditure costs. If it is not economical to make those expenditures, it may be necessary to retire or mothball facilities, or restrict or modify our operations to comply with more stringent standards. Our projects have obtained environmental permits and other approvals that are required for their operations. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations, permits and approvals and material future changes to them could materially impact our businesses. Although we believe the operations of the projects are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, licenses, permits and other authorizations required for the operation of the projects, and although there are environmental monitoring and reporting systems in place with respect to all the projects, there is no guarantee that more stringent laws will not be imposed, that there will not be more stringent enforcement of applicable laws or that such systems may not fail, which may result in material expenditures. Failure by the projects to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements, or increases in the cost of such compliance, including as a result of unanticipated liabilities or expenditures for investigation, assessment, remediation or prevention, could result in additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the projects' activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If additional regulatory requirements are imposed on energy companies mandating limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or requiring efficiency improvements, such requirements may result in compliance costs that alone or in combination could make some of our projects uneconomical to maintain or operate The EPA, other regulatory agencies, environmental advocacy groups and other organizations are focusing considerable attention on greenhouse gas emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change. We expect that additional EPA regulations, and possibly additional legislation and/or regulation by other regulatory authorities, may be issued, resulting in the imposition of additional limitations on greenhouse gas emissions or requiring efficiency improvements from fossil fuel-fired electric generating units. There are also potential impacts on our natural gas businesses as greenhouse gas legislation or regulations may require greenhouse gas emission reductions from the natural gas sector and could affect demand for natural gas. Additionally, greenhouse gas requirements could result in increased demand for energy conservation and renewable products, as well as increase competition surrounding such innovation. Additionally, our reputation could be damaged due to public perception surrounding greenhouse gas emissions at our power generation projects. Any such negative public perception could ultimately result in a decreased demand for electric power generation or distribution. Several regions of the United States and Canada have moved forward with greenhouse gas emission regulation. 28 Table of Contents For example, the multi-state carbon dioxide ("CO2") cap-and-trade program, known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, applies to our fossil fuel facilities in the Northeast region. The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative program went into effect on January 1, 2009. CO2 allowances are now a tradable commodity. California, British Columbia and Ontario are part of the Western Climate Initiative, which is developing a regional cap-and-trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the region to 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. In 2006, the State of California passed legislation initiating two programs to control/reduce the creation of greenhouse gases. The two laws are more commonly known as AB 32 and SB 1368. Under AB 32 (the Global Warming Solutions Act), the California Air Resources Board (the "CARB") is required to adopt a greenhouse gas emissions cap on all major sources (not limited to the electric sector) to reduce state-wide emissions of greenhouse gases to 1990 levels by 2020. Under the CARB regulations that took effect on January 1, 2013, electricity generators and certain other facilities are now subject to an allowance for greenhouse gas emissions, with allowances allocated by both formulas set by the CARB and auctions. SB 1368 added the requirement that the California Energy Commission, in consultation with the California Public Utilities Commission (the "CPUC") and the CARB, establish greenhouse gas emission performance standards and implement regulations for PPAs for a term of five or more years entered into prospectively by publicly-owned electric utilities. The legislation directs the California Energy Commission to establish the performance standard as one not exceeding the rate of greenhouse gas emitted per megawatt-hour ("MWh") associated with combined-cycle, gas turbine baseload generation, such as our North Island project. In addition to the regional initiatives, President Obama has declared action addressing climate change to be a major priority for his second term, and the EPA has taken several recent actions for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA's actions include its December 2009 finding of "endangerment" to public health and welfare from greenhouse gases, its issuance in September 2009 of the Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule which required large sources, including power plants, to monitor and report greenhouse gas emissions to the EPA annually, which was required beginning in 2011, and its issuance in May 2010 of its final Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which under a phased-in approach requires large industrial facilities, including power plants, to obtain permits to emit, and to use best available control technology to curb emissions of, greenhouse gases. In addition, final EPA regulations to impose greenhouse gas new source performance standards for electricity utility stream generating units are anticipated in 2013. In Canada, British Columbia and Ontario have implemented greenhouse gas reporting regulations and are developing additional programs to address greenhouse gas emissions. All of our subject generating facilities have complied on a timely basis with the new EPA and Ontario greenhouse gas reporting requirements. Compliance with greenhouse gas emission reduction requirements may require increasing the energy efficiency of equipment at our natural gas projects, committing significant capital toward carbon capture and storage technology, purchase of allowances and/or offsets, fuel switching, and/or retirement of high-emitting projects and potential replacement with lower emitting projects. The cost of compliance with greenhouse gas emission legislation and/or regulation is subject to significant uncertainties due to the outcome of several interrelated assumptions and variables, including timing of the implementation of rules, required levels of reductions, allocation requirements of the new rules, the maturation and commercialization of carbon capture and storage technology, and the selected compliance alternatives. We cannot estimate the aggregate effect of such requirements on our business, results of operations, financial condition or our customers. However, 29 Table of Contents such expenditures, if material, could make our generation facilities uneconomical to operate, result in the impairment of assets, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our renewable energy projects are subject to uncertainties regarding regulatory incentives We depend, in part, on government policies that support renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of developing and operating energy projects in the regions in which we operate. The viability of our renewable energy projects, including our windpower projects, is largely contingent on public policy mechanisms and favorable regulatory incentives in the United States and Canada, including production and investment tax credits, cash grants, loan guarantees, accelerated depreciation tax benefits, renewable portfolio standards, and carbon trading plans. These mechanisms have been implemented in the United States and Canada to support the development of renewable power generation and other clean infrastructure technologies. However, as a result of budgetary constraints, political factors or otherwise, governments from time to time may review their policies that support renewable energy and consider actions to make the policies less conducive to the development and operation of renewable energy facilities. We have reduced expectations regarding the value of renewable energy credits in certain renewable projects. Pursuant to the Sequestration Transparency Act of 2012 (the "STA"), on September 14, 2012, the White House Office of Management and Budget (the "OMB") released an initial report on the potential sequestration triggered by the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose, and Congress to enact, a plan to reduce the deficit by $1.2 trillion, as required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (the "BCA"). The sequester is expected to become effective in March 2013 if Congress does not enact a comprehensive deficit reduction package. The OMB report estimated a 7.6% reduction of grants awarded by the 1603 Treasury Program ("1603 Grants") in fiscal year 2013. We expect our Piedmont and Meadow Creek projects to receive 1603 Grant proceeds from the U.S. Treasury in the first half of 2013, which we plan to use to repay project-level debt financing at the Piedmont and Meadow Creek projects. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the timing, availability or amount, if any, of such stimulus grants, because such grants proceeds are subject to Congressional action. If we do not receive such 1603 grants, or such grants are delayed or reduced, our ability to repay the project-level debt financing at the Piedmont and Meadow Creek projects will be adversely affected. Any reductions to, or the elimination of, governmental incentives that support renewable energy, or the imposition of additional taxes or other assessments on renewable energy, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increasing competition could adversely affect our performance and the performance of our projects The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition and our projects encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers, in particular with respect to uncontracted output. In recent years, there has been increasing competition among generators for PPAs, and this has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets where supply has surpassed demand plus appropriate reserve margins. In addition, we continue to confront significant competition for acquisition and investment opportunities and, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, we may be unable to effect acquisitions or investments on attractive terms, if at all. Increasing competition among participants in the power generation industry may adversely affect our performance and the performance of our projects. We have limited control over management decisions at certain projects Going forward, approximately one third of our projects are not wholly-owned by us or we have contracted for their operations and maintenance, and in some cases we have limited control over the operation of the projects. Although we generally prefer to acquire projects where we have control, we 30 Table of Contents may make acquisitions in non-control situations to the extent that we consider it advantageous to do so and consistent with regulatory requirements and restrictions, including the Investment Company Act of 1940. Third-party operators (such as CEM, PPMS and DPS) operate many of the projects. As such, we must rely on the technical and management expertise of these third-party operators although typically we negotiate to obtain positions on a management or operating committee if we do not own 100% of a project. To the extent that such third-party operators do not fulfill their obligations to manage the operations of the projects or are not effective in doing so, the amount of cash available to pay dividends may be adversely affected. The approval of third-party operators also may be required for us to receive distributions of funds from projects or to transfer our interest in projects. Our inability to control fully certain projects could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may face significant competition for acquisitions and may not successfully integrate acquisitions Our business plan includes growth through identifying suitable acquisition opportunities, pursuing such opportunities, consummating acquisitions and effectively integrating them with our business. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the power industry in the future, and we may not be able to make acquisitions on an accretive basis or be sure that acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our existing operations, any of which could negatively impact our ability to continue paying dividends in the future. Although electricity demand is expected to grow, creating the need for more generation, and the U.S. power industry is continuing to undergo consolidation and may offer attractive acquisition opportunities, we are likely to confront significant competition for those opportunities and, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, we may be unable to effect acquisitions or investments. Any acquisition or investment may involve potential risks, including an increase in indebtedness, the inability to successfully integrate operations, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and the possibility that we pay more than the acquired company or interest is worth. There may also be liabilities that we fail to discover, or are unable to discover, in our due diligence prior to the consummation of an acquisition, and we may not be indemnified for some or all these liabilities. In addition, our funding requirements associated with acquisitions and integration costs may reduce the funds available to us to make dividend payments. Our equity interests in certain projects may be subject to transfer restrictions The partnership or other agreements governing some of the projects may limit a partner's ability to sell its interest. Specifically, these agreements may prohibit any sale, pledge, transfer, assignment or other conveyance of the interest in a project without the consent of the other partners. In some cases, other partners may have rights of first offer or rights of first refusal in the event of a proposed sale or transfer of our interest. These restrictions may limit or prevent us from managing our interests in these projects in the manner we see fit, and may have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our interests in these projects at the prices we desire. The projects are exposed to risks inherent in the use of derivative instruments We and the projects may use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage commodity and financial market risks. These activities, though intended to mitigate price volatility, expose us to other risks. In the future, the project operators could recognize financial losses on these arrangements, including as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities, if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract or upon the failure or insolvency of a financial intermediary, exchange or clearinghouse used to enter, execute or clear the transactions. If 31 Table of Contents actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources are not available, the valuation of these contracts would involve judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Most of these contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded currently in the statement of operations, resulting in significant volatility in our income (loss) (as calculated in accordance with GAAP) that does not significantly affect current period cash flows or the underlying risk management purpose of the derivative instruments. As a result, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on our quarterly and annual income (loss) (as calculated in accordance with GAAP). If the values of these financial contracts change in a manner that we do not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have executed natural gas swaps to reduce our risks to changes in the market price of natural gas, which is the fuel consumed at many of our projects. Due to declining natural gas prices, we have incurred losses on these natural gas swaps. We execute these swaps only for the purpose of managing risks and not for speculative trading. We do not typically hedge the entire exposure of our operations against commodity price volatility. To the extent we do not hedge against commodity price volatility, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be improved or diminished based upon movement in commodity prices. Construction projects are subject to construction risk We are in the process of developing or constructing new generation facilities. In any construction project, there is a risk that circumstances occur which prevent the timely completion of a project, cause construction costs to exceed the level budgeted, or result in operating performance standards or permit requirements not being met. Successful completion depends upon overcoming substantial risks, including, but not limited to, risks relating to siting, financing, construction, permitting, governmental approvals or commissioning delays. In the event a power project does not achieve commercial operation by its expected date, the project may be subject to increased construction costs associated with the continuing accrual of interest on the project's construction loan, which customarily matures at the start of commercial operation and converts to a term loan. A delay in completion of construction may also impact a project under its PPA which may include penalty provisions for a delay in commercial operation date or in situations of extreme delay, termination of the PPA. Construction cost overruns which exceed the project's construction contingency amount may require that the project owner infuse additional funds in order to complete construction. At the completion of construction, the power project may not meet its expected operating performance levels. Adverse circumstances may impact the design, construction, and commissioning of the project that could result in reduced output, increased heat rate or excessive air emissions. The Piedmont project commenced construction in November 2010 and is expected to be completed in early 2013. A delay in completion could result in the delay and/or loss of the proceeds from the 1603 grant. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining A number of our plant employees, from one plant in British Columbia and four plants in Ontario are subject to collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire periodically and we may not be able to renew them without a labor disruption or without agreeing to significant increases in labor costs. Strikes, work stoppages or the inability to negotiate future collective bargaining agreements on 32 Table of Contents favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Pension Plan may require additional future contributions Certain of our employees in Canada are participants in a defined benefit pension plan that we sponsor. As of December 31, 2012, our pension plan was under funded on a going concern basis by approximately $0.8 million. The additional amount of future contributions to our defined benefit plan will depend upon asset returns and a number of other factors and, as a result, the amounts we will be required to contribute in the future may vary. Cash contributions to the plan will reduce the cash available for our business. Hostile cyber intrusions could severely impair our operations, lead to the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition A cyber intrusion is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. More specifically, a cyber intrusion is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information. We are dependent on various information technologies throughout our company to carry out multiple business activities. Further, the computer systems that run our facilities are not completely isolated from external networks. Parties that wish to disrupt the U.S. and/or Canadian bulk power system or our operations could view our computer systems, software or networks as attractive targets for cyber attack. In addition, our business requires that we collect and maintain confidential employee and shareholder information, which is subject to electronic theft or loss. A successful cyber attack, such as unauthorized access, malicious software or other violations on the systems that control generation and transmission at our projects could severely disrupt business operations, diminish competitive advantages through reputation damages and increase operation costs. The breach of certain business systems could affect our ability to correctly record, process and report financial information. A major cyber incident could result in significant expenses to investigate and repair security breaches or system damage and could lead to litigation, fines, other remedial action, heightened regulatory scrutiny and damage to our reputation. For these reasons, a significant cyber incident could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and/or the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act could subject us to, among other things, penalties and legal expenses that could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and the Canadian Corruption of Foreign Public Officials Act (the "CFPOA"), which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business and/or other benefits. In addition, the FCPA imposes accounting standards and requirements on U.S. publicly traded corporations and their foreign affiliates, which are intended to prevent the diversion of corporate funds to the payment of bribes and other improper payments, and to prevent the establishment of "off books" slush funds from which improper payments can be made (similar provisions have been proposed to be added to the CFPOA). The Securities and Exchange Commission has increased its enforcement of the FCPA during the past several years. In recent years, enforcement of the CFPOA in Canada has also increased and can be attributed, in part, to the establishment of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's International Anti-Corruption Unit in 2008. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure that we, our employees and other intermediaries comply with the FCPA and/or the CFPOA, 33 Table of Contents there is no assurance that such policies or procedures will work effectively all of the time or protect us against liability under the FCPA and/or the CFPOA for actions taken by our employees and other intermediaries with respect to our business or any businesses that we may acquire. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA and/or the CFPOA, we may be subject to criminal penalties pursuant to the CFPOA and/or criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures pursuant to the FCPA, including changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and control, as well as potential personnel change and disciplinary actions, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, and failure to do so could negatively affect us Our success depends in part on our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key employees who have experience in our industry. Experienced employees in the power industry are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. A failure to attract and retain executives and other key employees with specialized knowledge in power generation could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition because of the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. Risks Related to Our Structure Volatile capital and credit markets may adversely affect our ability to raise capital on favorable terms and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows Disruptions in the capital and credit markets in the United States, Canada or abroad can adversely affect our ability to access the capital markets. Our access to funds under that credit facility is dependent on the ability of the banks that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could result in an inability to execute our growth plan, the deferral of discretionary capital expenditures, changes to our hedging strategy to reduce collateral-posting requirements, or a reduction in dividend payments or other discretionary uses of cash. Our ability to arrange for financing on a recourse or non-recourse basis and the costs of such capital are dependent on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •general economic and capital market conditions; •the availability of bank credit; •investor confidence; •our financial condition, performance and prospects as well as companies in our industry or similar financial circumstances; and •changes in tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. Should future access to capital not be available to us, either as a result of market conditions or our financial condition, we may have to sell assets or decide not to acquire new projects or expand or improve existing projects, either of which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Future dividends are not guaranteed Dividends to shareholders are paid at the discretion of our board of directors. Future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, the results of operations, working capital requirements, financial condition, restrictive covenants, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our board of directors may decrease the level of or entirely discontinue payment of dividends. Distribution of available cash may restrict our potential growth A payout of a significant portion of our operating cash flow may make additional capital and operating expenditures dependent on increased cash flow or additional financing in the future. Lack of these funds could limit our future growth and cash flow. In addition, we may be precluded from pursuing otherwise attractive acquisitions or investments if the projected short-term cash flow from the acquisition or investment is not adequate to service the capital raised to fund the acquisition or investment. See Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional details on cash available for distribution. Exchange rate fluctuations may impact the amount of cash available for dividends Our payments to shareholders, some of our corporate-level long-term debt and convertible debenture holders are denominated in Canadian dollars. Conversely, some of our projects' revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our debt instruments are revalued at each balance sheet date based on the U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate at the balance sheet date, with changes in the value of the debt recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The U.S. dollar to Canadian dollar foreign exchange rate has been volatile in recent years, which in turn creates volatility in our results due to the revaluation of our Canadian dollar-denominated debt. As a result, we are exposed to currency exchange rate risks, against which we do not typically hedge our entire exposure. Despite our partial hedges against this risk through 2015, any arrangements to mitigate this exchange rate risk may not be sufficient to fully protect against this risk. If hedging transactions do not fully protect against this risk, changes in the currency exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could adversely affect our cash available for distribution. Our indebtedness and financing arrangements, and any failure to comply with the covenants contained therein, could negatively impact our business and our projects and could render us unable to make cash distributions, acquisitions or investments or issue additional indebtedness we otherwise would seek to do The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences for our shareholders and other stakeholders, including: •our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; •our ability to refinance indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; •our ability to satisfy debt service and other obligations; •our vulnerability to general adverse industry conditions and economic conditions, including but not limited to adverse changes in foreign exchange rates and commodity prices; •the availability of cash flow to fund other corporate purposes and grow our business; •our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry; and •placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged. 35 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012, our consolidated long-term debt represented approximately 61.0% of our total capitalization, comprised of debt and balance sheet equity. The agreements governing our indebtedness limit but do not prohibit the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Our current or future borrowings could increase the level of financial risk to us and, to the extent that the interest rates are not fixed and rise, or that borrowings are refinanced at higher rates, then cash available for dividends could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates do not have a significant impact on cash payments that are required on our debt instruments as approximately 90% of our debt, including our share of the project-level debt associated with equity investments in affiliates, either bears interest at fixed rates or is financially hedged through the use of interest rate swaps. As of February 27, 2013, we had $64.1 million outstanding and $112.9 million was issued in letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, $424.2 million of outstanding convertible debentures, $636.4 million of outstanding non-recourse project-level debt, and $1.1 billion of unsecured notes. Although we expect to repay the amounts outstanding under the credit facility with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Florida Projects expected to close in the remaining part of the first quarter of 2013, our credit facility is a primary source of our liquidity, See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our credit facility contains financial covenants, covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. Although we currently expect to remain in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility through late 2014, we are considering a variety of measures to reduce our leverage. If we are unsuccessful or other adverse events occur, we may breach one or more of these covenants, which would result in a default under the credit facility or would prevent us from taking certain actions that are not permitted under the credit facility unless certain covenants are met, including making distributions, making certain acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, and refinancing or issuing debt, that we otherwise would seek to do. In such case, we may be required to seek waivers or consents from our lenders or amendments to our credit facility, or may be required to seek to refinance our credit facility, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to accomplish any such actions on terms acceptable to us or at all, and we will otherwise be in default under our credit facility, which would enable lenders thereunder to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding and exercise remedies with respect to collateral. Our ability to amend our credit facility or otherwise obtain waivers from our lenders depends on matters that are outside of our control and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in that regard. In the event we are not able to refinance our credit facility or obtain waivers or consents, our business may be materially adversely affected, including with respect to our ability to take the actions described above. In addition, some of the projects currently have non-recourse term loans or other financing arrangements in place with various lenders. These financing arrangements are typically secured by all of the project assets and contracts as well as our equity interests in the project. The terms of these financing arrangements generally impose many covenants and obligations on the part of the borrower. For example, some agreements contain requirements to maintain specified historical, and in some cases prospective debt service coverage ratios before cash may be distributed from the relevant project to us, which would adversely affect cash available for dividends. In many cases, an uncured default by any party under key project agreements (such as a PPA or a fuel supply agreement) will also constitute a default under the project's term loan or other financing arrangement. Failure to comply with the terms of these term loans or other financing arrangements, or events of default thereunder, may prevent cash distributions by the particular project(s) to us and may entitle the lenders to demand repayment and/or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with the terms, restrictions or obligations of any of our revolving credit facility, convertible debentures or unsecured notes or any other financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness, or events of default thereunder, may entitle 36 Table of Contents the lenders to demand repayment, accelerate related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision applies and/or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our lenders under our indebtedness demand payment, we may not, at that time, have sufficient cash and cash flows from operating activities to repay such indebtedness. Our failure to refinance or repay any indebtedness when due could constitute a default under such indebtedness. Under such circumstances, it is expected that dividends to our shareholders would not be permitted until such indebtedness was refinanced or repaid. In addition, any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. A downgrade in our credit rating or any deterioration in credit quality could negatively affect our ability to access capital and our ability to hedge, and could trigger termination rights under certain contracts A downgrade in our credit rating or deterioration in credit quality could adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities, restrict access to our revolving credit facility and/or trigger termination rights or enhanced disclosure requirements under certain contracts to which we are a party. Any downgrade of our corporate credit rating could cause counterparties to require us to post letters of credit or other additional collateral, make cash prepayments, obtain a guarantee agreement or provide other security, all of which would expose us to additional costs and/or could adversely affect our ability to comply with covenants or other obligations under any of our revolving credit facility, convertible debentures or unsecured notes or any other financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness (or could constitute an event of default under any such financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness that we may be unable to cure), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our creditworthiness may affect the value of our common shares Changes to our perceived creditworthiness and ability to meet our required covenants on an on-going basis may affect the market price or value and the liquidity of our common shares. The interest rate we pay on our credit facility may increase if certain credit ratios deteriorate. The future issuance of additional common shares could dilute existing shareholders From time to time, we may decide to issue additional common shares, redeem outstanding debt for common shares, to repay outstanding principal amounts under existing debt by issuing common shares or issue common shares to meet growth objectives. The issuance of additional common shares may have a dilutive effect on shareholders and may adversely impact the price of our common shares. We have guaranteed the performance of some of our subsidiaries, which may result in substantial costs in the event of non-performance We have issued certain guarantees of the performance of some of our subsidiaries in certain situations, which obligates us to perform in the event that the subsidiaries do not perform. In the event of non-performance by the subsidiaries, we could incur substantial cost to fulfill our obligations under these guarantees. Such performance guarantees could have a material impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Notes 9, 24 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements for information on our guarantee obligations. 37 Table of Contents We have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our shareholders. The BCBCA and our Articles of Continuance contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors ("Board"). These provisions include: •As a notice of meeting is required to include certain particulars in the case where a shareholder meeting is being requisitioned by shareholders, our Board must be given advance notice regarding special business that is to be brought by such requisitioning shareholders before the shareholder meeting. For special business, advance notice describing the special business to be discussed at the meeting must be provided and that notice must include any documents to be approved or ratified as an addendum or state that such document will be available for inspection at our records office or other reasonably accessible location. •Under the BCBCA, shareholders may make proposals for matters to be considered at the annual general meeting of shareholders, provided that such shareholders represent at least 1% of the voting shares of a company or such shares have a fair market value of at least Cdn$2,000. Such proposals must be sent to us in advance of any proposed meeting by delivering a timely written notice in proper form to our registered office. The notice must include information on the business the shareholder intends to bring before the meeting. These provisions could have the effect of delaying until the next shareholder meeting shareholder actions that are favored by the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities. •Casual vacancies on our Board can be filled until the next annual meeting of shareholders by the directors of our Board. A change of control will also result in an event of default under our credit facility and will permit holders of our convertible debentures to require that we purchase the debentures upon the conditions set forth in the respective indenture governing the debentures, which may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common shares. We have also adopted a shareholder rights plan that may discourage or delay a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common shares and may make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. Under the rights plan: •The rights will generally become exercisable if a person or group acquires 20% or more of Atlantic Power's outstanding common shares (unless such transaction is a "permitted bid" or a transaction to which the application of the shareholders rights plan has been waived pursuant to the terms of the plan) and thus becomes an "acquiring person." A "permitted bid" is an offer pursuant to which, among other things, such person or group agrees to hold the offer open to all shareholders for a period longer than the statutorily required period. •Each right, when exercisable, will entitle the holder, other than the "acquiring person," to acquire shares of Atlantic Power's common shares at a significant discount to the then-prevailing market price. •As a result, the rights plan may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an "acquiring person" and may discourage or delay a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. Our common shares may not continue to be qualified investments under Canadian tax laws There can be no assurance that our common shares will continue to be qualified investments under relevant Canadian tax laws for trusts governed by registered retirement savings plans, registered 38 Table of Contents retirement income funds, deferred profit sharing plans, registered education savings plans, registered disability savings plans and tax-free savings accounts. Canadian tax laws impose penalties for the acquisition or holding of non-qualified or ineligible investments. We are subject to Canadian tax As a Canadian corporation, we are generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes, and dividends paid by us are generally subject to Canadian withholding tax if paid to a shareholder that is not a resident of Canada. We hold a promissory note from our primary U.S. holding company (the "Intercompany Note") and are required to include, in computing our taxable income, interest on the Intercompany Note. On November 5, 2011, we acquired directly and indirectly, all of the outstanding limited partnership units of the Partnership pursuant to a court-approved plan of arrangement. We are required to include the income or loss from the Partnership in our taxable income. We expect that our existing tax attributes initially will be available to offset the income inclusions noted herein such that they will not result in an immediate material increase to our liability for Canadian taxes. However, once we fully utilize our existing tax attributes (or if, for any reason, these attributes were not available to us), our Canadian tax liability would materially increase. Although we intend to explore potential opportunities in the future to preserve the tax efficiency of our structure, no assurances can be given that our Canadian tax liability will not materially increase at that time. Canadian federal income tax laws and policies could be changed in a manner which adversely affects holders of our common shares There can be no assurance that Canadian federal income tax laws and Canada Revenue Agency administrative policies respecting the Canadian federal income tax consequences generally applicable to us, to our subsidiaries, or to a U.S. or Canadian holder of common shares will not be changed in a manner which adversely affects holders of our common shares. Our prior and current structure may be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax liability Under our prior IPS structure, we treated the subordinated notes as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, we deducted the interest payments on the subordinated notes and reduced our net taxable income treated as "effectively connected income" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under our current structure, our subsidiaries that are incorporated in the United States are subject to U.S. federal income tax on their income at regular corporate rates (currently as high as 35%, plus state and local taxes), and one of our U.S. holding companies will claim interest deductions with respect to the Intercompany Note in computing its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership acquisition added another U.S. holding company to our structure. This holding company owns the U.S. operating assets of the Partnership. This group currently has certain intercompany financing arrangements (the "Partnership Financing Arrangements") in place. We claim interest deductions in the United States with respect to the Partnership Financing Arrangements. To the extent any interest expense under the subordinated notes, the Intercompany Note or the Partnership Financing Arrangements is disallowed or is otherwise not deductible, the U.S. federal income tax liability of our U.S. holding companies will increase, which could materially affect the after-tax cash available to distribute to us. While we received advice from our U.S. tax counsel at the time of the issuance, based on certain representations by us and our U.S. holding companies and determinations made by our independent advisors, as applicable, that the subordinated notes and the Intercompany Note should be treated as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the Partnership has received advice from its U.S. accountants, based on certain representations by its holding companies, that the payments on the 39 Table of Contents Partnership Financing Arrangements should be deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") could successfully challenge these positions and assert that any of these arrangements should be treated as equity rather than debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that the interest on such arrangements is otherwise not deductible. In this case, the otherwise deductible interest would be treated as non-deductible distributions and, in the case of the Intercompany Note and the Partnership Financing Arrangements, may be subject to U.S. withholding tax to the extent our respective U.S. holding company had current or accumulated earnings and profits. The determination of debt or equity treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes is based on an analysis of the facts and circumstances. There is no clear statutory definition of debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and its characterization is governed by principles developed in case law, which analyzes numerous factors that are intended to identify the nature of the purported creditor's interest in the borrower. Not all courts have applied this analysis in the same manner, and some courts have placed more emphasis on certain factors than other courts have. To the extent it were ultimately determined that our interest expense on the subordinated notes, the Intercompany Note or the Partnership Financing Arrangements were disallowed, our U.S. federal income tax liability for the applicable open tax years would materially increase, which could materially affect the after-tax cash available to us to distribute. Alternatively, the IRS could argue that the interest on the subordinated notes, the Intercompany Note or the Partnership Financing Arrangements exceeded or exceeds an arm's length rate, in which case only the portion of the interest expense that does not exceed an arm's length rate may be deductible and the remainder may be subject to U.S. withholding tax to the extent our U.S. holding companies had current or accumulated earnings and profits. We have received advice from independent advisors that the interest rate on these debt instruments was and is, as applicable, commercially reasonable under the circumstances, but the advice is not binding on the IRS. Furthermore, our U.S. holding companies' deductions attributable to the interest expense on the Intercompany Note and/or certain of the Partnership Financing Arrangements may be limited by the amount by which each U.S. holding company's net interest expense (the interest paid by each U.S. holding company on all debt, including the Intercompany Note and the Partnership Financing Arrangements, less its interest income) exceeds 50% of its adjusted taxable income (generally, U.S. federal taxable income before net interest expense, net operating loss carryovers, depreciation and amortization). Any disallowed interest expense may currently be carried forward to future years. In addition, if our U.S. holding companies do not make regular interest payments as required under these debt agreements, other limitations on the deductibility of interest under U.S. federal income tax laws could apply to defer and/or eliminate all or a portion of the interest deduction that our U.S. holding companies would otherwise be entitled to. Finally, the applicability of recent changes to the U.S.-Canada Income Tax Treaty to the structure associated with certain of the Partnership Financing Arrangements may result in distributions from the Partnership's U.S. group to its Canadian parent being subject to a 30% rate of withholding tax instead of the 5% rate that would otherwise have applied. Our U.S. holding companies have existing net operating loss carryforwards that we can utilize to offset future taxable income. Our U.S. holding companies include the Partnership's U.S. holding company, Atlantic Power (US) GP, which has net operating loss carryforwards attributable to tax years prior to our acquisition. It is anticipated that these net operating loss carryforwards will be available to offset future taxable income of Atlantic Power (US) GP; however, their use may be subject to an annual limitation. While we expect these losses will be available to us as a future benefit, in the event that they are successfully challenged by the IRS or subject to additional future limitations, our ability to realize these benefits may be limited. A reduction in our net operating losses, or additional limitations on our ability to use such losses, may result in a material increase in our future income tax liability. 40 Table of Contents Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd. (formerly named CPI Preferred Equity Ltd.) is subject to Canadian tax, as is Atlantic Power's income from the Partnership As a Canadian corporation, we are generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes. See "Risks Related to Our Structure—We are subject to Canadian tax." We are required to include in computing our taxable income any income earned by the Partnership. In addition, Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd., a subsidiary of the Partnership, is also a Canadian corporation and is generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes. Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd. is liable to pay its applicable Canadian taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 