ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Our Projects Our revenue may be reduced upon the expiration or termination of our power purchase agreements Power generated by our projects, in most cases, is sold under PPAs that expire at various times. See "Item 1. Business—Our Organization and Segments" for details about our projects' PPAs and related expiration dates. In addition, these PPAs may be subject to termination prior to expiration in certain circumstances, including default by the project. When a PPA expires or is terminated, it is possible that the price received by the project for power under subsequent arrangements may be reduced significantly. It is possible that subsequent PPAs may not be available at prices that permit the operation of the project on a profitable basis. If this occurs, the affected project may temporarily or permanently cease operations. Our projects depend on their electricity, thermal energy and transmission services customers Each of our projects rely on one or more PPAs, steam sales agreements or other agreements with one or more utilities or other customers for a substantial portion of its revenue. The largest customers of our power generation projects, including projects recorded under the equity method of accounting, are PSCo, PEF and OEFC, which purchase approximately 17%,15% and 9%, respectively, of the net electric generation capacity of our projects. The amount of cash available to make payments on our indebtedness, is highly dependent upon customers under such agreements fulfilling their contractual obligations. There is no assurance that these customers will perform their obligations or make required payments. Certain of our projects are exposed to fluctuations in the price of electricity Those of our projects operating with no PPA or PPAs based on spot market pricing for some or all of their output will be exposed to fluctuations in the wholesale price of electricity. In addition, should any of the long-term PPAs expire or terminate, the relevant project will be required to either negotiate a new PPA or sell into the electricity wholesale market, in which case the prices for electricity will depend on market conditions at the time. Currently, our most significant exposure to market power prices is at the Selkirk, Morris and Chambers projects. At Chambers, our utility customer has the right to sell a portion of the plant's output into the spot power market if it is economical to do so, and the Chambers project shares in the profits from these sales. In addition, during periods of low spot electricity prices the utility takes less generation, which negatively affects the project's operating margin. At Morris, the facility can sell approximately 100MW above Equistar's demand into the grid at market prices. If market prices do not justify the increased generation the project has no requirement to sell power in excess of the Equistar 29 Table of Contents demand. At Selkirk, approximately 23% of the capacity of the facility is not contracted and is sold at market prices or not sold at all if market prices do not support the profitable operation of that portion of the facility. Our projects may not operate as planned The ability of our projects to meet availability requirements and generate the required amount of power to be sold to customers under the PPAs are primary determinants of the amount of cash that will be distributed from the projects to us, and that will in turn be available for dividends paid to our shareholders. There is a risk of equipment failure due to wear and tear, latent defect, design error or operator error, or force majeure events among other things, which could adversely affect revenues and cash flow. To the extent that our projects' equipment requires more frequent and/or longer than forecasted down times for maintenance and repair, or suffers disruptions of plant availability and power generation for other reasons, the amount of cash available for dividends may be adversely affected. In general, our power generation projects transmit electric power to the transmission grid for purchase under the PPAs through a single step up transformer. As a result, the transformer represents a single point of vulnerability and may exhibit no abnormal behavior in advance of a catastrophic failure that could cause a temporary shutdown of the facility until a replacement transformer can be found or manufactured. If the reason for a shutdown is outside of the control of the operator, a power generation project may be able to make a force majeure claim for temporary relief of its obligations under the project contracts such as the PPA, fuel supply, steam sales agreement, or otherwise mitigate impacts through business interruption insurance policies, maintenance and debt service reserves. If successful, such insurance claims may prevent a default or reduce monetary losses under such contracts. However, a force majeure claim may be challenged by the contract counterparty and, to the extent the challenge is successful, the outage may still have a materially adverse effect on the project. We provide letters of credit under our $300 million senior secured revolving credit facility for contractual credit support at some of our projects. If the projects fail to perform under the related project-level agreements, the letters of credit could be drawn and we would be required to reimburse our senior lenders for the amounts drawn. Our projects depend on third-party suppliers under fuel supply agreements, and increases in fuel costs may adversely affect the profitability of the projects The amount of energy generated at the projects is highly dependent on suppliers under certain fuel supply agreements fulfilling their contractual obligations. The loss of significant fuel supply agreements or an inability or failure by any supplier to meet its contractual commitments may adversely affect our results. Upon the expiration or termination of existing fuel supply agreements, we or our project operators will have to renegotiate these agreements or may need to source fuel from other suppliers. We may not be able to renegotiate these agreements or enter into new agreements on similar terms. Furthermore, there can be no assurance as to availability of the supply or pricing of fuel under new arrangements, and it can be very difficult to accurately predict the future prices of fuel. 30 Table of Contents Revenues earned by our projects may be affected by the availability, or lack of availability, of a stable supply of fuel at reasonable or predictable prices. To the extent possible, the projects attempt to match fuel cost setting mechanisms in supply agreements to energy payment formulas in the PPA. To the extent that fuel costs are not matched well to PPA energy payments, increases in fuel costs may adversely affect the profitability of the projects, if not otherwise hedged. For example, a portion of the required natural gas at our Auburndale project and all of the natural gas required at our Lake project is purchased at market prices, but the projects' PPAs that expire in 2013 do not effectively pass through changes in natural gas prices. We have executed a hedging program to substantially mitigate this risk through 2013. Revenues from windpower projects are highly dependent on suitable wind and associated weather conditions We own interests in two windpower projects. The energy and revenues generated at a wind energy project are highly dependent on climatic conditions, particularly wind conditions, which are variable and difficult to predict. Turbines will only operate within certain wind speed ranges that vary by turbine model and manufacturer, and there is no assurance that the wind resource at any given project site will fall within such specifications. We base our investment decisions with respect to each wind energy project on the findings of wind studies conducted on-site before starting construction. However, actual climatic conditions at a project site, particularly wind conditions, may not conform to the findings of these wind studies, and, therefore, our wind energy projects may not meet anticipated production levels, which could adversely affect our forecasted profitability. Insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses Our business involves significant operating hazards related to the generation of electricity. While we believe that the projects' insurance coverage addresses all material insurable risks, provides coverage that is similar to what would be maintained by a prudent owner/operator of similar facilities, and are subject to deductibles, limits and exclusions which are customary or reasonable given the cost of procuring insurance, current operating conditions and insurance market conditions, there can be no assurance that such insurance will continue to be offered on an economically feasible basis, nor that all events that could give rise to a loss or liability are insurable, nor that the amounts of insurance will at all times be sufficient to cover each and every loss or claim that may occur involving our assets or operations of our projects. Any losses in excess of those covered by insurance, which may include a significant judgment against any project or project operator, the loss of a significant permit or other approval or the imposition of a significant fine or penalty, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and future prospects and could adversely affect dividends to our shareholders. Our operations are subject to the provisions of various energy laws and regulations Generally, in the United States, our projects are subject to regulation by the FERC, regarding the terms and conditions of wholesale service and rates, as well as by state regulators regarding the prudency of utilities entering into PPAs entered into by qualifying facility projects and the siting of the generation facilities. The majority of our generation is sold by QF projects under PPAs that required approval by state authorities. In August 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 was enacted, which removed certain regulatory constraints on investment in utility power producers. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 also limited the requirement that electric utilities buy electricity from qualifying facilities in certain markets that have certain competitive characteristics, potentially making it more difficult for our current and future 31 Table of Contents projects to negotiate favorable PPAs with these utilities. Finally, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended and expanded the reach of the FERC's merger approval authority. If any project that is a QF were to lose its status as a QF, then such project may no longer be entitled to exemption from provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 or from provisions of the Federal Power Act and state law and regulations. Such project may be able to obtain exempt wholesale generator status to maintain its exemption from the provisions of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005; however, our projects may not be able to obtain such exemptions. Loss of QF status could trigger defaults under covenants to maintain that status in the PPAs and project-level debt agreements, and if not cured within allowed cure periods, could result in termination of agreements, penalties or acceleration of indebtedness under such agreements. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 provides incentives for various forms of electric generation technologies, which may subsidize our competitors. In addition, pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC selected an electric reliability organization to impose mandatory reliability rules and standards. Among other things, the FERC's rules implementing these provisions allow such reliability organizations to impose sanctions on generators that violate their new reliability rules. The introductions of new laws, or other future regulatory developments, may have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Generally, in Canada, our projects are subject to energy regulation primarily by the relevant provincial authorities. Risks with respect to the two Canadian provinces where we currently have projects are addressed further below. (i)British Columbia The government of British Columbia has a number of specific statutes and regulations that govern our projects in that province. The statutes can be changed by act of the provincial legislature and the regulations may be changed by the provincial cabinet. Such changes could have a material effect on our projects. BC Hydro is generally required to acquire all new power (beyond what it already generates from existing BC Hydro plants) from independent power producers. Two of our three British Columbia projects currently sell all of their electricity to BC Hydro, and the third project sells substantially all of its electricity to BC Hydro. Therefore, changes to BC Hydro's energy procurement policies and financial difficulties of or regulatory intervention in respect of BC Hydro could impact the market for electricity generated by our British Columbia projects. This risk is mitigated in part because, in general, BC Hydro is currently limited by regulation to undertaking efficiency improvements at its existing facilities and only undertaking development of new generation with BCUC approval. There is a risk that the regulatory regime could adversely affect the amount of power that BC Hydro purchases from our projects and the competitive environment or the price at which BC Hydro is willing to purchase power from our British Columbia projects. The BCUC to some extent regulates independent power producers. While the BCUC is nominally independent of the government, its chair and commissioners are effectively appointed by the provincial cabinet. All contracts for electricity supply, including those between independent power producers and BC Hydro, must be filed with and approved by BCUC as being "in the public interest." The BCUC may hold a hearing in this regard. Furthermore, the BCUC may impose conditions to be contained in agreements entered into by public utilities for electricity. 32 Table of Contents (ii)Ontario The government of Ontario has a number of specific statutes and regulations that govern our projects in that province. The statutes can be changed by act of the provincial legislature and the regulations may be changed by the provincial cabinet. Such changes could have a material effect on our projects. In Ontario, the OEB is an administrative tribunal with authority to grant or renew, and set the terms for, licenses with respect to electricity generation facilities, including our projects. No person is permitted to generate electricity in Ontario without a license from the OEB. While all of our Ontario projects are currently licensed, the OEB has the authority to effectively modify the licenses by adopting "codes" that are deemed to form part of the licenses. Furthermore, any violations of the license or other irregularities in the relationship with the OEB can result in fines. While the OEB provides reports to the Ontario Minister of Energy, it generally operates independently from the government. However, the Minister may issue policy directives (with Cabinet approval) concerning general policy and the objectives to be pursued by the OEB, and the OEB is required to implement such policy directives. Thus, the OEB's regulation of our projects is subject to potential political interference, to a degree. A number of other regulators and quasi-governmental entities play a role, including the IESO, Hydro One, ESA, OEFC and OPA. All these agencies may affect our projects. Future FERC rate determinations could negatively impact Path 15's cash flows The stability of Path 15's cash flows will continue to be subject to the risk of the FERC's adjusting the expected formulation of revenues as a result of its rate review every three years and the participation therein by interveners who may argue for lower rates. Such a rate review commenced in February 2011. The cost-of-service methodology currently applied by the FERC is well established and transparent; however, certain inputs in the FERC's determination of rates are subject to its discretion, including its response to protests from interveners in such rate cases, which include return on equity and the recovery of certain extraordinary expenses. Unfavorable decisions on these matters could adversely affect the cash flow, financial position and results of operations of us and Path 15, and could adversely affect our cash available for dividends. Noncompliance with federal reliability standards may subject us and our projects to penalties Our operations are subject to the regulations of NERC, a self-regulatory non-governmental organization which has statutory responsibility to regulate bulk power system users and generation and transmission owners and operators. NERC groups the users, owners, and operators of the bulk power system into 17 categories, known as functional entities—e.g., Generator Owner, Generator Operator, Purchasing-Selling Entity, etc.—according to the tasks they perform. The NERC Compliance Registry lists the entities responsible for complying with the mandatory reliability standards and the FERC, NERC, or a regional reliability organization may assess penalties against any responsible entity found to be in noncompliance. Violations may be discovered through self-certification, compliance audits, spot checking, self-reporting, compliance investigations by NERC (or a regional reliability organization) and the FERC, periodic data submittals, exception reporting, and complaints. The penalty that might be imposed for violating the requirements of the standards is a function of the Violation Risk Factor. Penalties for the most severe violations can reach as high as $1 million per violation, per day, and our projects could be exposed to these penalties if violations occur. 33 Table of Contents Our projects are subject to significant environmental and other regulations Our projects are subject to numerous and significant federal, state, provincial and local laws, including statutes, regulations, by-laws, guidelines, policies, directives and other requirements governing or relating to, among other things: air emissions; discharges into water; ash disposal; the storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of dangerous goods and hazardous, residual and other regulated materials, such as chemicals; the prevention of releases of hazardous materials into the environment; the prevention, presence and remediation of hazardous materials in soil and groundwater, both on and off site; land use and zoning matters; and workers' health and safety matters. Our facilities could experience incidents, malfunctions or other unplanned events that could result in spills or emissions in excess of permitted levels and result in personal injury, penalties and property damage. As such, the operation of our projects carries an inherent risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities (including potential civil actions, compliance or remediation orders, fines and other penalties), and may result in the projects being involved from time to time in administrative and judicial proceedings relating to such matters. We have implemented environmental, health and safety management programs designed to continuously improve environmental, health and safety performance. The Clean Air Act and related regulations and programs of the EPA extensively regulate the air emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds by power plants. Environmental laws and regulations have generally become more stringent over time, and this trend may continue. In particular, the EPA promulgated the final Cross-State Air Pollution Rule ("CSAPR") which replaces the Clean Air Interstate Rule ("CAIR") and requires 27 states and the District of Columbia to curb emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides from power plants through more aggressive state-by-state emissions limits for nitrogen oxides and sulfur dioxide. The first phase of compliance was to begin on January 1, 2012 and the second (and more restrictive) phase would begin on January 1, 2014. On December 30, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals stayed CSAPR pending hearings in April 2012 and a possible decision late in 2012. In the interim, the regulations of the CAIR remain in place. Compliance with the new rule, when implanted, may have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. The EPA proposed new mercury and air toxics emissions standards for power plants on May 3, 2011 and issued a final rule on December 16, 2011. Meeting these new standards at our coal-fired facility may have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act has historically exempted fossil fuel combustion wastes from hazardous waste regulation. However, in June 2010 the Environmental Protection Agency proposed two alternative sets of regulations governing coal ash. One set of proposed regulations would designate coal ash as "special waste" and bring ash impoundments at coal-fired power plants under federal regulations governing hazardous solid waste under Subtitle C of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Another set of proposed regulations would regulate coal ash as a non-hazardous solid waste. If the Environmental Protection Agency determines to regulate coal ash as a hazardous waste, our 40% owned coal-fired facility may be subject to increased compliance obligations and costs associated that may have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. Significant costs may be incurred for either capital expenditures or the purchase of allowances under any or all of these programs to keep the projects compliant with environmental laws and regulations. The projects' PPAs do not allow for the pass through of emissions allowance or emission reduction capital expenditure costs, with the exception of Pasco. However, the Selkirk project has such a PPA without pass-through, yet participated in a settlement with New York utilities, IPPs and the state in which any required RGGI costs shall nonetheless be reimbursed to the IPPs. If it is not economical to make those expenditures it may be necessary to retire or mothball facilities, or restrict or modify our operations to comply with more stringent standards. 34 Table of Contents Our projects have obtained environmental permits and other approvals that are required for their operations. Compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations, permits and approvals and material future changes to them could materially impact our businesses. Although we believe the operations of the projects are currently in material compliance with applicable environmental laws, licenses, permits and other authorizations required for the operation of the projects, and although there are environmental monitoring and reporting systems in place with respect to all the projects, there is no guarantee that more stringent laws will not be imposed, that there will not be more stringent enforcement of applicable laws or that such systems may not fail, which may result in material expenditures. Failure by the projects to comply with any environmental, health or safety requirements, or increases in the cost of such compliance, including as a result of unanticipated liabilities or expenditures for investigation, assessment, remediation or prevention, could result in additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions and delays in the projects' activities, the extent of which cannot be predicted. Ongoing public concerns about emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases have resulted in the enactment of, and proposals for, laws and regulations at the federal, state and regional levels, some of which do or could apply to some of our project operations. For example, the multi-state CO2 cap-and-trade program, known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, applies to our fossil fuel facilities in the Northeast region. The Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative program went into effect on January 1, 2009. CO2 allowances are now a tradable commodity. California, British Columbia and Ontario are part of the Western Climate Initiative, which is developing a regional cap-and-trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the region to 15% below 2005 levels by 2020. In 2006, the State of California passed legislation initiating two programs to control/reduce the creation of greenhouse gases. The two laws are more commonly known as AB 32 and SB 1368. Under AB 32 (the Global Warming Solutions Act), the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") is required to adopt a greenhouse gas emissions cap on all major sources (not limited to the electric sector). In order to do so, it must adopt regulations for the mandatory reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and to reduce state-wide emissions of greenhouse gases to 1990 levels by 2020. On October 20, 2011, the CARB adopted rules whose first phase will take full effect on January 1, 2013. Starting that date, electricity generators and certain other facilities will be subject to an allowance for greenhouse gas emissions. Allowances will be allocated by both formulas set by the CARB and auctions. Legal challenges to the program are underway and additional challenges are anticipated. SB 1368 added the requirement that the California Energy Commission, in consultation with the California Public Utilities Commission (the "CPUC") and the CARB establish greenhouse gas emission performance standards and implement regulations for power purchase agreements for a term of five or more years entered into prospectively by publicly-owned electric utilities. The legislation directs the California Energy Commission to establish the performance standard as one not exceeding the rate of greenhouse gas emitted per megawatt-hour associated with combined-cycle, gas turbine baseload generation, such as our North Island project. In addition to the regional initiatives, legislation for the reduction of greenhouse gases has been introduced at the federal level and if passed, may eventually override the regional efforts with a national cap and trade program. To date, however, federal bills to create both a cap-and-trade allowance system and a renewable/efficiency portfolio standard have not been adopted into law. Separately, the Environmental Protection Agency has taken several recent actions for the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. The Environmental Protection Agency's actions include its finding of "endangerment" to public health and welfare from greenhouse gases, its issuance in September 2009 of the Final Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases Rule which requires large sources, including power plants, to monitor 35 Table of Contents and report greenhouse gas emissions to the Environmental Protection Agency annually starting in 2011, and its publication in May 2010 of its final Prevention of Significant Deterioration and Title V Greenhouse Gas Tailoring Rule, which took effect in 2011 and requires large industrial facilities, including power plants, to obtain permits to emit, and to use best available control technology to curb emissions of, greenhouse gases. Proposed EPA regulations to impose greenhouse gas new source performance standards for electricity utility stream generating units are anticipated in 2012. The implementation of existing CO2 and other greenhouse gas legislation or regulation, the introduction of new regulation, or other future regulatory developments may subject the Company to increased compliance obligations and costs that could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or financial condition. All of our generating facilities complied with the March 31, 2011 requirement to submit 40 CFR Part 98 Mandatory Greenhouse Gas reporting for the emission of eligible site generated greenhouse gases in 2010. This is a national requirement and stands as a start in developing a baseline for greenhouse gases emissions at a national level. Increasing competition could adversely affect our performance and the performance of our projects The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and our projects encounter competition from utilities, industrial companies and other independent power producers, in particular with respect to uncontracted output. In recent years, there has been increasing competition among generators for power sales agreements, and this has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices in certain markets where supply has surpassed demand plus appropriate reserve margins. Increasing competition among participants in the power generation industry may adversely affect our performance and the performance of our projects. We have limited control over management decisions at certain projects In a number of cases, our projects are not wholly-owned by us or we have contracted for their operations and maintenance, and in some cases we have limited control over the operation of the projects. Although we generally prefer to acquire projects where we have control, we may make acquisitions in non-control situations to the extent that we consider it advantageous to do so and consistent with regulatory requirements and restrictions, including the Investment Company Act of 1940. Third-party operators (such as Caithness, PPMS and Western) operate many of the projects. As such, we must rely on the technical and management expertise of these third-party operators, although typically we are represented on a management or operating committee if we do not own 100% of a project. To the extent that such third-party operators do not fulfill their obligations to manage the operations of the projects or are not effective in doing so, the amount of cash available to pay dividends may be adversely affected. We may face significant competition for acquisitions and may not successfully integrate acquisitions Our business plan includes growth through identifying suitable acquisition opportunities, pursuing such opportunities, consummating acquisitions and effectively integrating them with our business. We may be unable to identify attractive acquisition candidates in the power industry in the future, and we may not be able to make acquisitions on an accretive basis or be sure that acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our existing operations, any of which could negatively impact our ability to continue paying dividends in the future at current rates. Although electricity demand is expected to grow, creating the need for more generation, and the U.S. power industry is continuing to undergo consolidation and may offer attractive acquisition opportunities, we are likely to confront significant competition for those opportunities and, to the extent that any opportunities are identified, we may be unable to effect acquisitions or investments. 36 Table of Contents Any acquisition or investment may involve potential risks, including an increase in indebtedness, the inability to successfully integrate operations, the potential disruption of our ongoing business, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and the possibility that we pay more than the acquired company or interest is worth. There may also be liabilities that we fail to discover, or are unable to discover, in our due diligence prior to the consummation of an acquisition, and we may not be indemnified for some or all these liabilities. In addition, our funding requirements associated with acquisitions and integration costs may reduce the funds available to us to make dividend payments. Our equity interests in certain of projects may be subject to transfer restrictions The partnership or other agreements governing some of the projects may limit a partner's ability to sell its interest. Specifically, these agreements may prohibit any sale, pledge, transfer, assignment or other conveyance of the interest in a project without the consent of the other partners. In some cases, other partners may have rights of first offer or rights of first refusal in the event of a proposed sale or transfer of our interest. These restrictions may limit or prevent us from managing our interests in these projects in the manner we see fit, and may have an adverse effect on our ability to sell our interests in these projects at the prices we desire. The projects are exposed to risks inherent in the use of derivative instruments We and the projects may use derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, to manage commodity and financial market risks. In the future, the project operators could recognize financial losses on these arrangements as a result of volatility in the market values of the underlying commodities or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract. If actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources are not available, the valuation of these contracts would involve judgment or use of estimates. As a result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect the reported fair value of these contracts. Most of these contracts are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded currently in earnings, resulting in significant volatility in our income (as calculated in accordance with GAAP) that does not significantly affect current period cash flows or the underlying risk management purpose of the derivative instruments. As a result, we may be unable to accurately predict the impact that our risk management decisions may have on our quarterly and annual income (as calculated in accordance with GAAP). If the values of these financial contracts change in a manner that we do not anticipate, or if a counterparty fails to perform under a contract, it could harm our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have executed natural gas swaps to reduce our risks to changes in the market price of natural gas, which is the fuel consumed at many of our projects. Due to declining natural gas prices, we have incurred losses on these natural gas swaps. We execute these swaps only for the purpose of managing risks and not for speculative trading. Construction projects are subject to construction risk In any construction project, there is a risk that circumstances occur which prevent the timely completion of a project, cause construction costs to exceed the level budgeted, or result in operating performance standards not being met. In the event a power project does not achieve commercial operation by its expected date, the project may be subject to increased construction costs associated with the continuing accrual of interest on the project's construction loan, which customarily matures at the start of commercial operation and converts to a term loan. A delay in completion of construction may also impact a project under its PPA which may include penalty provisions for a delay in commercial operation date or in situations of extreme delay, termination of the PPA. 37 Table of Contents Construction cost overruns which exceed the project's construction contingency amount may require that the project owner infuse additional funds in order to complete construction. At the completion of construction, the power project may not meet its expected operating performance levels. Adverse circumstances may impact the design, construction, and commissioning of the project that could result in reduced output, increased heat rate or excessive air emissions. The Piedmont project commenced construction in November 2010 and is expected to be completed in late 2012. A delay in completion could result in the delay and/or loss of the proceeds from the 1603 grant. Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining A number of our plant employees, one plant in British Columbia and four plants in Ontario are subject to collective bargaining agreements. These agreements expire periodically and we may not be able to renew them without a labor disruption or without agreeing to significant increases in labor costs. Our Pension Plan may require future contributions Certain of our employees in Canada are participants in a defined benefit pension plans that we sponsor. As of December 31, 2011, the unfunded pension liability on our pension plan was approximately $2.2 million. The amount of future contributions to our defined benefit plan will depend upon asset returns and a number of other factors and, as a result, the amounts we will be required to contribute in the future may vary. Cash contributions to the plan will reduce the cash available for our business. Risks Related to Our Structure Distribution of available cash may restrict our potential growth A payout of a significant portion of our operating cash flow may make additional capital and operating expenditures dependent on increased cash flow or additional financing in the future. Lack of these funds could limit our future growth and cash flow. In addition, we may be precluded from pursuing otherwise attractive acquisitions or investments if the projected short-term cash flow from the acquisition or investment is not adequate to service the capital raised to fund the acquisition or investment. Future dividends are not guaranteed Dividends to shareholders are paid at the discretion of our board of directors. Future dividends, if any, will depend on, among other things, the results of operations, working capital requirements, financial condition, restrictive covenants, business opportunities, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Our board of directors may decrease the level of or entirely discontinue payment of dividends. Exchange rate fluctuations may impact the amount of cash available for dividends Our payments to shareholders, some of our corporate-level long-term debt and convertible debenture holders are denominated in Canadian dollars. Conversely, some of our projects' revenues and expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, we are exposed to currency exchange rate risks. Despite our hedges against this risk through 2015, any arrangements to mitigate this exchange rate risk may not be sufficient to fully protect against this risk. If hedging transactions do not fully protect against this risk, changes in the currency exchange rate between U.S. and Canadian dollars could adversely affect our cash available for distribution. 38 Table of Contents Our indebtedness and financing arrangements could negatively impact our business and our projects The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could increase and have important consequences for our shareholders, including: •our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be limited; and •our ability to refinance indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated long-term debt represented approximately 59.1% of our total capitalization, comprised of debt and balance sheet equity. Our current or future borrowings could increase the level of financial risk to us and, to the extent that the interest rates are not fixed and rise, or that borrowings are refinanced at higher rates, then cash available for dividends could be adversely affected. Changes in interest rates do not have a significant impact on cash payments that are required on our debt instruments as approximately 88% of our debt, including our share of the project-level debt associated with equity investments in affiliates, either bears interest at fixed rates or is financially hedged through the use of interest rate swaps. As of February 24, 2012, we had $72.8 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility, $192.2 million of outstanding convertible debentures, $333.8 million of outstanding non-recourse project-level debt, and $1.1 billion of unsecured notes. Covenants in these borrowings may also adversely affect cash available for dividends. In addition, some of the projects currently have non-recourse term loans or other financing arrangements in place with various lenders. These financing arrangements are typically secured by all of the project assets and contracts as well as our equity interests in the project. The terms of these financing arrangements generally impose many covenants and obligations on the part of the borrower. For example, some agreements contain requirements to maintain specified historical, and in some cases prospective debt service coverage ratios before cash may be distributed from the relevant project to us. In many cases, an uncured default by any party under key project agreements (such as a PPA or a fuel supply agreement) will also constitute a default under the project's term loan or other financing arrangement. Failure to comply with the terms of these term loans or other financing arrangements, or events of default thereunder, may prevent cash distributions by the particular project(s) to us and may entitle the lenders to demand repayment and/or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, failure to comply with the terms, restrictions or obligations of any of our revolving credit facility, convertible debentures or unsecured notes or any other financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness, or events of default thereunder, may entitle the lenders to demand repayment, accelerate related debt as well as any other debt to which a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision applies and/or enforce their security interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to refinance or repay any indebtedness when due could constitute a default under such indebtedness. Under such circumstances, it is expected that dividends to our shareholders would not be permitted until such indebtedness was refinanced or repaid. A downgrade in Atlantic Power's or the Partnership's credit ratings or any deterioration in their credit quality could negatively affect our ability to access capital and our ability to hedge and could trigger termination rights under certain contracts A downgrade in Atlantic Power's or the Partnership's credit ratings or deterioration in their credit quality could adversely affect our ability to renew existing, or obtain access to new, credit facilities and could increase the cost of such facilities and/or trigger termination rights or enhanced disclosure requirements under certain contracts to which Atlantic or the Partnership is a party. Any downgrade of Atlantic's or the Partnership's corporate credit rating could cause counterparties to require us to post 39 Table of Contents letters of credit or other additional collateral, make cash prepayments, obtain a guarantee agreement or provide other security, all of which would expose us to additional costs and/or could adversely affect our ability to comply with covenants or other obligations under any of our revolving credit facility, convertible debentures or unsecured notes or any other financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness (or could constitute an event of default under any such financing arrangements, borrowings or indebtedness that we may be unable to cure), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our creditworthiness may affect the value of our common shares Changes to our perceived creditworthiness may affect the market price or value and the liquidity of our common shares. The interest rate we pay on our credit facility may increase if certain credit ratios deteriorate. Investment eligibility There can be no assurance that our common shares will continue to be qualified investments under relevant Canadian tax laws for trusts governed by registered retirement savings plans, registered retirement income funds, deferred profit sharing plans, registered education savings plans, registered disability savings plans and tax-free savings accounts. We are subject to Canadian tax As a Canadian corporation, we are generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes, and dividends paid by us are generally subject to Canadian withholding tax if paid to a shareholder that is not a resident of Canada. We completed our initial public offering on the TSX in November 2004. At the time of the initial public offering, our public security was an IPS. Each IPS was comprised of one common share and Cdn$5.767 principal value of 11% subordinated notes due 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we converted to a traditional common share company through a shareholder approved plan of arrangement in which each IPS was exchanged for one of our new common shares. Our new common shares were listed and posted for trading on the TSX commencing on December 2, 2009 and trade under the symbol "ATP," and the former IPSs, which traded under the symbol "ATP.UN," were delisted at that time. In connection with our conversion from an IPS structure to a traditional common share structure and the related reorganization of our organizational structure, we received a note from our primary U.S. holding company (the "Intercompany Note"). We are required to include, in computing our taxable income, interest on the Intercompany Note. On November 5, 2011, we acquired directly and indirectly, all of the outstanding limited partnership units of the Partnership pursuant to a court-approved plan of arrangement. We are required to include the income or loss from the Partnership in our taxable income. We expect that our existing tax attributes initially will be available to offset the income inclusions noted herein such that they will not result in an immediate material increase to our liability for Canadian taxes. However, once we fully utilize our existing tax attributes (or if, for any reason, these attributes were not available to us), our Canadian tax liability would materially increase. Although we intend to explore potential opportunities in the future to preserve the tax efficiency of our structure, no assurances can be given that our Canadian tax liability will not materially increase at that time. Other Canadian federal income tax risks There can be no assurance that Canadian federal income tax laws and Canada Revenue Agency administrative policies respecting the Canadian federal income tax consequences generally applicable to us, to our subsidiaries, or to a U.S. or Canadian holder of common shares will not be changed in a manner which adversely affects holders of our common shares. 40 Table of Contents Our prior and current structure may be subject to additional U.S. federal income tax liability Under our prior IPS structure, we treated the subordinated notes as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Accordingly, we deducted the interest payments on the subordinated notes and reduced our net taxable income treated as "effectively connected income" for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under our current structure, our subsidiaries that are incorporated in the United States are subject to U.S. federal income tax on their income at regular corporate rates (currently as high as 35%, plus state and local taxes), and one of our U.S. holding companies will claim interest deductions with respect to the Intercompany Note in computing its income for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Partnership Acquisition added another U.S. holding company to our structure. This holding company owns the U.S. operating assets of the Partnership. This group currently has certain intercompany financing arrangements (the "the Partnership Financing Arrangements") in place. We claim interest deductions in the U.S. with respect to the Partnership Financing Arrangements. To the extent any interest expense under the subordinated notes, the Intercompany Note or the Partnership Financing Arrangements is disallowed or is otherwise not deductible, the U.S. federal income tax liability of our U.S. holding companies will increase, which could materially affect the after-tax cash available to distribute to us. While we received advice from our U.S. tax counsel, based on certain representations by us and our U.S. holding companies and determinations made by our independent advisors, as applicable, that the subordinated notes and the Intercompany Note should be treated as debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the Partnership has received advice from its U.S. accountants, based on certain representations by its holding companies, that the payments on the Partnership Financing Arrangements should be deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") could successfully challenge these positions and assert that any of these arrangements be treated as equity rather than debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes or that the interest on such arrangements are otherwise not deductible. In this case, the otherwise deductible interest would be treated as non-deductible distributions and, in the case of the Intercompany Note and the Partnership Financing Arrangements, may be subject to U.S. withholding tax to the extent our U.S. holding company had current or accumulated earnings and profits. The determination of debt or equity treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes is based on an analysis of the facts and circumstances. There is no clear statutory definition of debt for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and its characterization is governed by principles developed in case law, which analyzes numerous factors that are intended to identify the nature of the purported creditor's interest in the borrower. Furthermore, not all courts have applied this analysis in the same manner, and some courts have placed more emphasis on certain factors than other courts have. To the extent it were ultimately determined that our interest expense on the subordinated notes, the Intercompany Note or the Partnership Financing Arrangements were disallowed, our U.S. federal income tax liability for the applicable open tax years would materially increase, which could materially affect the after-tax cash available to us to distribute. Alternatively, the IRS could argue that the interest on the subordinated notes, the Intercompany Note or the Partnership Financing Arrangements exceeded or exceeds an arm's length rate, in which case only the portion of the interest expense that does not exceed an arm's length rate may be deductible and, in the remainder may be subject to U.S. withholding tax to the extent our U.S. holding companies had current or accumulated earnings and profits. We have received advice from independent advisors that the interest rate on these debt instruments was and is, as applicable, commercially reasonable in the circumstances, but the advice is not binding on the IRS. Furthermore, our U.S. holding companies' deductions attributable to the interest expense on the Intercompany Note and/or certain of the Partnership Financing Arrangements may be limited by the amount by which its net interest expense (the interest paid by our U.S. holding company on all debt, including the Intercompany Note and the Partnership Financing Arrangements, less its interest income) exceeds 50% of their adjusted taxable income (generally, U.S. federal taxable income before net interest expense, net operating loss carryovers, depreciation and amortization). Any disallowed interest 41 Table of Contents expense may currently be carried forward to future years. Moreover, proposed legislation has been introduced, though not enacted, several times in recent years that would further limit the 50% of adjusted taxable income cap described above to 25% of adjusted taxable income, although recent proposals in the Fiscal Year Budget for 2010 would only apply the revised rules to certain foreign corporations that were expatriated. Furthermore, if our U.S. holding companies do not make regular interest payments as required under these debt agreements, other limitations on the deductibility of interest under U.S. federal income tax laws could apply to defer and/or eliminate all or a portion of the interest deduction that our U.S. holding company would otherwise be entitled to. Finally, the applicability of recent changes to the U.S.-Canada Income Tax Treaty to the structure associated with certain of the Partnership Financing Arrangements may result in distributions from the Partnership's U.S. group to its Canadian parent being subject to a 30% rate of withholding tax instead of the 5% rate that would otherwise have applied. Our U.S. holding companies have existing net operating loss carryforwards that we can utilize to offset future taxable income. While we expect these losses will be available to us as a future benefit, in the event that they are successfully challenged by the IRS or subject to future limitations, our ability to realize these benefits may be limited. A reduction in our net operating losses, or a limitation on our ability to use such losses, may result in a material increase in our future income tax liability. Our U.S. Holding companies include the Partnership's U.S. Holding company, Atlantic Power (US) GP, which has net operating loss carryforwards attributable to tax years prior to our acquisition. It is anticipated that these net operating loss carryforwards will be available to offset future taxable income of Atlantic Power (US) GP; however, their use may be subject to an annual limitation. While we expect these losses will be available to us as a future benefit, in the event that they are successfully challenged by the IRS or subject to additional future limitations, our ability to realize these benefits may be limited. A reduction in our net operating losses, or additional limitations on our ability to use such losses, may result in a material increase in our future income tax liability. Passive foreign investment company treatment We do not believe that we are a passive foreign investment company, and we do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company. However, if we were a passive foreign investment company while a taxable U.S. holder held common shares, such U.S. holder could be subject to an interest charge on any deferred taxation and the treatment of gain upon the sale of our stock as ordinary income. Risks Related to the Acquisition of the Partnership The failure to integrate successfully the businesses of Atlantic Power and the Partnership in the expected timeframe would adversely affect the combined company's future result The success of our acquisition of the Partnership, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2011, will depend, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including modest cost savings, from combining the businesses of Atlantic Power and the Partnership. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of Atlantic Power and the Partnership must be successfully integrated. This integration will be complex and time-consuming. The failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company not fully achieving the anticipated benefits of the Plan of Arrangement. Potential difficulties that may be encountered in the continuing integration process include the following: •challenges associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; 42 Table of Contents •conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation structures between the entities; •integrating personnel from the two entities while maintaining focus on developing, producing and delivering consistent, high quality services; •consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; •coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; •potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions; •performance shortfalls at one or both of the entities as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused integrating the entities' operations; and •the ability of the combined company to deliver on its strategy going forward. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we record in connection with the acquisition become impaired, we could have to take significant charges against earnings In connection with the accounting for the acquisition, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired. Amortizing intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders' equity in future periods. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain, motivate and recruit executives and other key employees, and failure to do so could negatively affect us Our success depends in part on our ability to retain, recruit and motivate key employees. Experienced employees in the power industry are in high demand and competition for their talents can be intense. Employees of both Atlantic Power and the Partnership may experience uncertainty about their future role with the combined company even after, strategies with regard to the combined company are announced or executed. The potential distractions may adversely affect our ability to attract, motivate and retain executives and other key employees and keep them focused on applicable strategies and goals. A failure to retain and motivate executives and other key employees could have an adverse impact on our business. Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd. (formerly named CPI Preferred Equity Ltd.) is subject to Canadian tax, as is Atlantic Power's income from the Partnership As a Canadian corporation, we are generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes. See "Risks Related to Our Structure—We are subject to Canadian tax." We are required to include in computing our taxable income any income earned by the Partnership. In addition, Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd., a subsidiary of the Partnership, is also a Canadian corporation and is generally subject to Canadian federal, provincial and other taxes. Atlantic Power Preferred Equity Ltd. is liable to pay its applicable Canadian taxes. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 43 Table of Contents 