Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are numerous factors that affect our business and operating results, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of significant factors that might cause our future operating results to differ materially from those currently expected. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not specified herein, not currently known to us or currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial position, operating results and/or cash flows. Our business is difficult to evaluate due to our limited operating history and our prospects will be dependent on our ability to meet a number of challenges. We have a limited operating history. Our business is difficult to evaluate due to a lack of operational history, and our prospects will be dependent on our ability to meet a number of challenges. Because we have a limited operating history, you may not be able to evaluate our future prospects accurately. Our prospects will be primarily dependent on our ability to maintain customer drilling contracts for our drilling units and other factors. If we are not able to successfully meet these challenges, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, four customers accounted for approximately 26%, 21%, 13% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any one of these customers interrupt or curtail their activities, fail to pay for the services that have been performed, terminate their contracts, fail to renew their existing contracts or refuse to award new contracts and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers on comparable terms. The loss of any of our significant customers could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, including certain affiliated companies, and certain other third parties, and nonpayment by these customers and other parties could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, including certain companies owned by or associated with our affiliates. As of January 31, 2011, affiliates of F3 Capital had prepaid us approximately $8.3 million on the Dragonquest for construction services rendered by us, however F3 Capital has not pre-funded approximately $19.4 million as required under the construction supervision agreement. As a result, we have limited expenditures for this unit. In addition, under the construction supervision contract for the Cobalt Explorer, a drillship for which construction was suspended in June 2009, F3 Capital owes us approximately $3.0 million for services rendered in 2009 before the suspension of this contract. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by these entities, other key customers and certain other third parties could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If any key customers or other parties default on their obligations to us, our financial results and condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of these customers and other parties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and natural gas exploration and production companies due to a decline or volatility in oil and natural gas prices, a decrease in demand for oil and natural gas, or other factors, would adversely affect our business. Our business, including the utilization rates and dayrates we achieve for our owned and managed drilling units, depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production 12 Table of Contents expenditures of our customers. Oil and natural gas prices and customers’ expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. Commodity prices are affected by numerous factors, including the following: • changes in global economic conditions, including the continuation of the current recession; • the demand for oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and international tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • weather; • blowouts and other catastrophic events; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; and • the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in significant oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism. Oil and natural gas prices were at historically high levels until experiencing a sharp decline during the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. Although oil prices have recovered significantly, the 2008 decline in commodity prices caused companies exploring for and producing oil and natural gas to cancel or curtail drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production. Additionally, Gulf of Mexico drilling activity has been curtailed due to regulatory restrictions following the Macondo blowout in early 2010. A prolonged decline in demand for drilling services may materially erode dayrates and utilization rates for drilling units, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our securities. Our jackup drilling contracts are generally short-term, and we could experience reduced profitability if customers reduce activity levels, terminate or seek to renegotiate drilling contracts with us, or if market conditions dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage or turnkey basis, rather than on a dayrate basis. Many jackup drilling contracts are short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to reduce activity levels quickly in response to downward changes in oil and natural gas prices. Due to the short-term nature of most of our jackup drilling contracts, a decline in market conditions can quickly affect our business if customers reduce their levels of operations. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a unit that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable unit at a lower dayrate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the drilling unit is a total loss, if the drilling unit is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. 13 Table of Contents Some of our current jackup drilling contracts, and some drilling contracts that we may enter into in the future, may include terms allowing customers to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of these contracts are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of the contracts with customers that we enter into in the future may be cancellable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a drilling unit being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. Under most of our contracts, it is an event of default if we file a petition for bankruptcy or reorganization, which would allow the customer to terminate such contract. Currently, our drilling contracts are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed rate per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. While we plan to continue to perform services on a dayrate basis, market conditions may dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage basis, where we are paid a fixed amount for each foot drilled regardless of the time required or the problems encountered in drilling the well, or enter into turnkey contracts, whereby we agree to drill a well to a specific depth for a fixed price and bear some of the well equipment costs. These types of contracts are riskier for us than a dayrate contract as we would be subject to downhole geologic conditions in the well that cannot always be accurately determined and subject us to greater risks associated with equipment and downhole tool failures. Unfavorable downhole geologic conditions and equipment and downhole tool failures may result in significant cost increases or may result in a decision to abandon a well project which would result in us not being able to invoice revenues for providing services. Any such termination or renegotiation of contracts and unfavorable costs increases or loss of revenue could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The worldwide financial crisis of 2008-2009 has led to a worldwide economic recession that could worsen and that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. A slowdown in economic activity caused by the recession initially reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Benchmark crude prices peaked at over $140 per barrel in July 2008 and then declined dramatically to approximately $87 per barrel at year-end 2010. During 2010, the benchmark for crude prices fluctuated between the mid $60’s per barrel and high $80’s per barrel. However, recently oil prices have risen to exceed $100 per barrel. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. In addition, demand for our services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices could depress the near-term levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our financial position if they are determined to cause an impairment of our long-lived assets. Failure to obtain delivery of the Dragonquest may have a material and adverse effect on our business. We have secured a drilling contract for the Dragonquest which we are supervising the construction of for an affiliate of F3 Capital. We are not a party to the construction contract for this drilling unit and do not have control over any agreements between the owner and the shipyard. If this unit is not completed, completed in a timely manner, delivered to us upon completion of construction or acceptable to our customer, or if we are unable to deliver this unit or an acceptable replacement, our drilling contract may be cancelled and/or we may be required to pay damages to our customer, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy we may contract from time to time for the construction of drilling units or may enter into agreements to manage the construction of drilling units for others. Construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpected long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design and engineering problems; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • work stoppages; • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. If we experience delays and costs overruns in the construction of drilling units due to certain of the factors listed above, it could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we currently do not have any drilling units under construction, we are managing the construction of the Dragonquest, which we will operate upon completion of construction and is scheduled for delivery to Petrobras in the third quarter of 2011. Delays in the delivery of this unit would result in the delay in contract commencement, resulting in a loss of revenue to us, and may also cause the customer to terminate or shorten the term of the drilling contract for the unit pursuant to applicable late delivery clauses. In the event this unit is not completed on a timely basis, we may not be able to secure a replacement unit that is acceptable to the customer. Our business is affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and natural gas industry. Recent economic data indicates the rate of economic growth worldwide has declined significantly from the growth rates experienced in recent years. Current economic conditions have resulted in uncertainty regarding energy and commodity prices. In addition, future economic conditions may cause many oil and natural gas production companies to further reduce or delay expenditures in order to reduce costs, which in turn may cause a further reduction in the demand for drilling services. If conditions worsen, our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted. Our industry is highly competitive, cyclical and subject to intense price competition. Due to our limited operating history, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive, and contracts have traditionally been awarded on a competitive bid basis. The technical capabilities, availability and pricing of a drilling unit are often the 15 Table of Contents primary factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Other key factors include a contractor’s reputation for service, safety record, environmental record, technical and engineering support and long-term relationships with major, national and independent oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors in the offshore contract drilling industry generally have larger, more diverse fleets, longer operating histories with established safety and environmental records over a measurable period of time and long-term relationships with customers. This provides our competitors with competitive advantages that may adversely affect our efforts to contract our drilling units on favorable terms, if at all, and correspondingly negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Additionally, we are at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that are better capitalized because they are in a better position to withstand the effects of a downturn in our industry. The offshore contract drilling industry, historically, has been very cyclical with periods of high demand, limited supply and high dayrates alternating with periods of low demand, excess supply and low dayrates. Many offshore drilling units are highly mobile. Competitors may move drilling units from region to region in response to changes in demand. It is currently estimated that 40 newly constructed jackup rigs will be entered into service between now and December 2012 and 44 deepwater rigs are scheduled for delivery through 2012. This could result in an excess supply of rigs in the markets in which we operate. Periods of low demand and excess supply intensify competition in the industry and often result in some drilling units becoming idle for long periods of time. Our limited operating history may put us at a competitive disadvantage and, as a result, our drilling units may become idle. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates, or extended idle time, could result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drilling units if cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of the drilling units may not be recoverable. There may be limits to our ability to mobilize drilling units between geographic markets and the time and costs of such drilling unit mobilizations may be material to our business. The offshore contract drilling market is generally a global market as drilling units may be mobilized from one market to another market. However, geographic markets can, from time to time, have material fluctuations in costs and risks as the ability to mobilize drilling units can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to, governmental regulation and customs practices, the significant costs to move a drilling unit, availability of tow boats, weather, political instability, civil unrest, military actions, and the technical capability of the drilling units to operate in various environments. Any increase in the supply of drilling units in the geographic areas in which we operate, whether through new construction, refurbishment or conversion of drilling units from other uses, remobilization or changes in the law or its application, could increase competition and result in lower dayrates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, while a drilling unit is being mobilized from one geographic market to another, we may not be paid by the customer for the time that the drilling unit is out of service. Also, we may mobilize the drilling unit to another geographic market without a customer contract which will result in costs not reimbursable by future customers. Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance and contractual indemnity rights may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations will be subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, fires and pollution. The occurrence of these events (such as events similar to the 2010 incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico involving the Macondo well) could result in the suspension of drilling or production operations, claims by the operator and others affected by such events, severe damage to, or destruction of, the property and equipment involved, injury or death to drilling unit personnel, environmental damage and increased insurance costs. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of drilling unit personnel as a result of our drilling operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. 16 Table of Contents In addition, our operations will be subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our drilling units could be damaged by high winds, turbulent seas, or unstable sea bottom conditions which could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until such damages are repaired. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by host governments, oil and natural gas companies and other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas, as well as claims by individuals living in or around coastal areas. As is customary in our industry, the risks of our operations are partially covered by our insurance and partially by contractual indemnities from our customers. However, insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our drilling units, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our offshore drilling operations could be adversely impacted by the Macondo well incident and the resulting changes in regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity. In May 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior implemented a six-month moratorium/suspension on certain drilling activities in water depths greater than 500 feet in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. The U.S. Department of the Interior subsequently issued NTL’s implementing additional safety and certification requirements applicable to drilling activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, imposed additional requirements with respect to development and production activities in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and has delayed the approval of applications to drill in both deepwater and shallow-water areas. On July 12, 2010, the U.S. Department of the Interior issued a revised moratorium/suspension on drilling in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, which was lifted on October 12, 2010 after the adoption on September 30, 2010 of new regulations relating to the design of wells and testing of the integrity of wellbores, the use of drilling fluids, the functionality and testing of well control equipment, including blowout preventers, and other safety regulations. As a condition to lifting of the moratorium/suspension, the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (the “BOEM”) was directed to require that each operator demonstrate that it has in place written and enforceable commitments that ensure that containment resources are available promptly in the event of a blowout and that the Chief Executive Officer of each operator certify to the BOEM that the operator has complied with applicable regulations. Before deepwater drilling in the U.S. is fully resumed, the BOEM intends to conduct inspections of each deepwater drilling operation for compliance with regulations, including but not limited to the testing of blowout preventers. It is unclear when these requirements will be satisfied, due in part to the limited staffing of the BOEM, although the agency recently approved the first deepwater drilling permit since lifting the drilling moratorium. Currently we do not have operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. However, the Dragonquest, which we will operate upon completion of construction, is currently scheduled to commence drilling operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico in the fourth quarter of 2011 for Petrobras. At this time, we cannot predict the full impact of the Macondo well incident and resulting changes in the regulation of offshore oil and gas exploration and development activity on our operations or contracts or what actions may be taken by our customers, other industry participants or the U.S. or other governments in response to the incident. Further legislative or regulatory enactments may impose new requirements for well control and blowout prevention equipment that could increase our costs and cause delays in our operations due to unavailability of associated equipment. 17 Table of Contents Customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume liability for and indemnify us against well control and subsurface risks under our dayrate contracts, and we do not separately purchase insurance for such indemnified risks. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering (for example, the recent incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico involving the Macondo well), the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. In the future, we may not be able to obtain agreements from customers to indemnify us for such damages and risks or the indemnities that we do obtain may be limited in scope and duration. Additionally, even if our customers agree to indemnify us, there can be no assurance that they will necessarily be financially able to indemnify us against all of these risks. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurs. As a result of the number and significance of catastrophic events in the offshore drilling industry in recent years, such as hurricanes and spills in the Gulf of Mexico, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums and increased restrictions on coverage and have made other coverages, such as Gulf of Mexico windstorm coverage, unavailable. While we believe we have reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, would be adequate should a catastrophic event occur related to our property, plant or equipment, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. When any of our coverage expires, or when we seek coverage in the future, we cannot guarantee that adequate coverage will be available, offered at reasonable prices, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our drilling units could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or our liability were to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. Our international operations are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties not generally associated with domestic operations. A primary component of our business strategy is to operate in international oil and natural gas producing areas. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including: • political, social and economic instability, war and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • piracy; • increased operating costs; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • work stoppages; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; 18 Table of Contents • wage and price controls; • imposition of trade barriers; • imposition or changes in enforcement of local content laws; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. Our financial condition and results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that may occur in the particular country or region in which we are active. Additionally, we may experience currency exchange losses where, at some future date, revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not hedge exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available in the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Many governments favor or effectively require that drilling contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when bidding for contracts against local competitors. Our offshore contract drilling operations are subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and natural gas exploration and development, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, the use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors and duties on the importation and exportation of drilling units and other equipment. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. Our business is subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling industry, including those requiring us to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Countries where we currently operate have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Additionally, any operations and activities in the United States and its territorial waters will be subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Clean Water Act, the OPA, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and MARPOL. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory 19 Table of Contents or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations. Changes in U.S. federal laws and regulations, or in those of other jurisdictions where we operate, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages, may adversely affect our operations. If the U.S. government amends or prescribes new federal laws or regulations, our potential exposure to liability for operations and activities in the United States and its territorial waters may increase. As a result of the Macondo incident in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, the U.S. Congress is currently considering bills to repeal federal caps on liability for pollution or contamination under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Even if these caps are not repealed, future bills and regulations may increase our liability for pollution or contamination resulting from any operations and activities we may have in the United States and its territorial waters including punitive damages, civil and criminal penalties. Although we are contracted to operate the Dragonquest in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico upon completion of construction, currently we have no operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, however, other jurisdictions where we operate may also modify their laws and regulations in a manner that would increase our liability for pollution and other environmental damage. New technology and/or products may cause us to become less competitive. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that may allow them to access technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement new technology or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Thus, our inability to effectively use and implement new and emerging technology may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2010, on a consolidated basis, we had total senior indebtedness outstanding of approximately $1.1 billion consisting of the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes, the Aquamarine Term Loan, the F3 Capital Note, and short-term debt of approximately $8.6 million. Subject to the restrictions in the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes, we may incur additional indebtedness. Our high level of indebtedness could have important consequences for an investment in us and significant effects on our business. For example, our level of indebtedness and the terms of our debt agreements may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations under our indebtedness and our contractual and commercial commitments and increase the risk that we may default on our debt obligations; • prevent us from raising the funds necessary to repurchase 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes tendered to us if there is a change of control or in connection with an excess cash flow offer, which would constitute a default under the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes; • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes and other debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, or general corporate purposes, which may limit our ability to execute our business strategy; 20 Table of Contents • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit management’s discretion in operating our business; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate or the general economy; and • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase and we have outstanding floating rate borrowings. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. Our ability to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend on our future operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our company and industry, many of which are beyond our control. We may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. Even with our existing level of debt, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial amounts of additional secured and unsecured indebtedness in the future, including debt under future credit facilities, some or all of which may be secured on a first priority basis and therefore would rank contractually senior to the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes to the extent of the value of that collateral. As of December 31, 2010, we would have the ability to incur additional indebtedness under the indenture for the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes, including up to $25.0 million of additional indebtedness under any credit agreement that may be entered into by us. Although the terms of the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes and any future credit facilities will, and the terms of the Aquamarine term loan do, limit our ability to incur additional debt, these terms do not and will not prohibit us from incurring substantial amounts of additional debt for specific purposes or under certain circumstances. In addition, the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes will allow us to issue additional 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes under certain circumstances, which additional notes will also be guaranteed by the guarantors and will share in the collateral that will secure the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes and guarantees. We may also incur other additional indebtedness secured by liens that rank equal to those securing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes in which case, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share equally with the holders of the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with our winding up, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization or dissolution. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. The indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries that may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and restrict our ability to operate our business. The indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes contains covenants that restrict our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to take various actions, such as: • paying dividends, redeeming subordinated indebtedness or making other restricted payments; • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness or, with respect to our restricted subsidiaries or any other subsidiary guarantor, issuing preferred stock; • creating or incurring liens; • incurring dividend or other payment restrictions affecting our restricted subsidiaries; • consummating a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our or our subsidiaries’ assets; • entering into transactions with affiliates; 21 Table of Contents • transferring or selling assets; • engaging in business other than our current business and reasonably related extensions thereof; • issuing capital stock of certain subsidiaries; • taking or omitting to take any actions that would adversely affect or impair in any material respect the collateral securing our indebtedness; • terminating or amending certain material contracts; • amending, modifying or changing our organizational documents; and • employing our drilling units in certain jurisdictions. We may also be prevented from taking advantage of business opportunities that arise if we fail to meet certain ratios or because of the limitations imposed on us by the restrictive covenants under the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes. In addition, the restrictions contained in the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes and any future credit facility may also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, enter into acquisitions, execute our business strategy, effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted or engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. In the future, we may also incur debt obligations that might subject us to additional and different restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms or at all. Our ability to comply with these covenants will likely be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure investors that we will satisfy those requirements. A breach of any of these provisions could result in a default under our existing and future debt agreements which could allow all amounts outstanding thereunder to be declared immediately due and payable. This would likely in turn trigger cross-acceleration and cross-default rights under the terms of our indebtedness outstanding at such time. If the amounts outstanding under our indebtedness were to be accelerated or were the subject of foreclosure actions, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full the money owed to the lenders or to our other debt holders. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire, or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. The acquisition of assets or businesses that we believe to be complementary to our drilling operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and that any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our securities. Our business is capital intensive and any such transactions could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash. We may need to raise additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings to execute our growth strategy and to fund acquisitions. Adequate sources of capital may not be available when needed on favorable terms. If we raise additional capital by issuing additional equity securities, existing shareholders may be diluted. If our capital resources are insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of using management time and resources to pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed; 22 Table of Contents • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations; • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. We do not expect operating and maintenance costs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrates. However, costs for operating a drilling unit are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. In addition, should the drilling units incur idle time between contracts, we would typically maintain the crew to prepare the drilling unit for its next contract and would not reduce costs to correspond to the decrease in revenue. During times of moderate activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as the crew may be required to prepare the drilling units for stacking, after which time the crew will be reduced to a level necessary to maintain the drilling unit in working condition with the extra crew members assigned to active drilling units or dismissed. In addition, as drilling units are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the drilling unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. The loss of some of our key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. Our future operational performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of our management as well as marketing, sales and operations personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and operations personnel. We may experience intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. Failure to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services to, and support for, our drilling units. In periods of increasing activity and when the number of operating units in our areas of operation increases, either because of new construction, re-activation of idle units or the mobilization of units into the region, shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages and difficulty in staffing. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel also could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work. In addition, our ability to expand operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of the skilled labor force. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from the requirement that we evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the 23 Table of Contents Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required to comply with the management certification requirements of, and preparing for the auditor attestation under, Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. While we have been able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be adequate in the future to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be susceptible to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our securities. Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations, both internationally and domestically. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. We are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between the countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon the interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. If any country successfully challenges our income tax filings based on our structure or the presence of our operations there, or if we otherwise lose a material dispute, our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our extensive training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from improper acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that U.S. laws and regulations prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and seek to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or omissions, or due to the acts or omissions of others, including actions taken by our agents and our strategic or local partners, even though our agents and partners may not be subject to the FCPA), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may be required to repurchase certain of our indebtedness with cash upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specified change of control events in the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of such outstanding notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, up to, but not including the date of repurchase. We may not have sufficient funds available to repurchase all of the notes tendered pursuant to any such offer and any other debt that would become payable 24 Table of Contents upon a change of control or in connection with such an asset sale offer. Any of our future debt agreements may also limit our ability to repurchase these notes until all such debt is paid in full. Our failure to purchase these notes would be a default under the indenture governing the 11 1/2% Senior Secured Notes, which would in turn likely trigger a default under our existing and any future debt agreements. In addition, the occurrence of a change of control may also constitute an event of default under our existing and any future debt agreements. In that event, we would need to cure or refinance the applicable debt agreements before making an offer to purchase. Moreover, any future indebtedness we incur may restrict our ability to repurchase these notes, including following a change of control. We may be unable to repay all of such indebtedness or obtain a waiver of that type. Any requirement to offer to repurchase outstanding notes may therefore require us to refinance our other outstanding debt, which we may not be able to accomplish on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. These repurchase requirements may also delay or make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. Our related party transactions with F3 Capital and its affiliates may cause conflicts of interests that may adversely affect us. We have entered into, and may, in the future, enter into various transactions and agreements with F3 Capital and its affiliates. F3 Capital has no fiduciary duty to make decisions in our best interest. F3 Capital is entitled to vote our ordinary shares that it owns in accordance with its interests, which may be contrary to our interests and those of other shareholders. F3 Capital and its other affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us business opportunities or to offer to sell additional assets to us. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with F3 Capital are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our board of directors is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and F3 Capital or its affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public’s perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us and F3 Capital and its affiliates. F3 Capital may favor its own interests over our interests and those of other shareholders. One of our directors, through his ownership of F3 Capital, will continue to hold a significant interest in us. As of February 25, 2011, on a fully diluted basis, F3 Capital owned approximately 34.6% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares, including shares issuable upon exercise of outstanding warrants. Through his ownership of F3 Capital, Hsin-Chi Su, one of our directors, has significant influence over matters such as the election of our directors’ control over our business, policies and affairs and other matters submitted to our shareholders. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our securities to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2009 Revision) (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time), and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of holders of our securities to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are, to a large extent, governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English 25 Table of Contents common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws thus providing significantly less protection to investors as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, which have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgment of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose civil liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. Additionally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without re-examination of the merits at common law, provided such judgment: • is final and conclusive; • is one in respect of which the federal court of the United States had jurisdiction over the defendant according to Cayman Islands conflict of law rules; • is either for a liquidated sum not in respect of penalties or taxes or a fine or similar fiscal or revenue obligations or, in certain circumstances, for in personam non-monetary relief; and • was neither obtained in a manner, nor is of a kind enforcement of which is contrary to natural justice of the public policy of the Cayman Islands. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 