Item 1A. Risk Factors In evaluating our business, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks that we face. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our securities may decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is difficult to evaluate due to a lack of operational history. Our predecessor, Vantage Energy, was formed in September 2006 and consummated an initial public offering in May 2007. Vantage Energy was a “special purpose acquisition company” with a limited operational history which consisted of certain financial transactions and the evaluation of potential acquisitions including the acquisition of OGIL. Vantage was formed in 2007 primarily for the purpose of merging Vantage Energy with OGIL. The operations of OGIL have been limited to the assumption of the construction contracts for the four Baker Marine Pacific Class 375 ultra premium jackup drilling rigs, the first of which was placed into service in February 2009. Because we have a limited operating history, you may not be able to evaluate our future prospects accurately, which will be dependent on our ability to successfully complete the construction of the jackups, semisubmersibles and drillships, obtain customer contracts and operate the jackups, semisubmersibles and drillships. A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and gas exploration and production companies, due to a decline or volatility in oil and natural gas prices, a decrease in demand for oil and natural gas or other factors, would adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production expenditures of our customers. Oil and natural gas prices and our customers’ expectations of potential changes in these prices significantly affect this level of activity. Commodity prices are affected by numerous factors, including the following: · changes in the global economic conditions, including the potential for a recession; · the demand for oil and natural gas; · the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; · expectations regarding future prices; · advances in exploration, development and production technology; · the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; · the rate of decline of existing and new oil and gas reserves; · the level of production in non-OPEC countries; · domestic and international tax policies; · the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; · the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; and · the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in significant oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism. Oil and natural gas prices have been at historically high levels until experiencing a sharp decline during the second half of 2008. This decline in commodity prices has caused companies exploring for and producing oil and natural gas to cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. Any reduction in the demand for drilling services may materially erode dayrates and utilization rates for drilling rigs, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our securities. 9 Table of Contents Our business is affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and gas industry. Recent economic data indicates the rate of economic growth worldwide has declined significantly from the growth rates experienced in recent years. The consequences of a recession may include a lower level of economic activity, uncertainty regarding energy and commodity prices and reduced demand for oil and natural gas. In addition, current economic conditions may cause many oil and natural gas production companies to reduce or delay expenditures to reduce costs, which in turn may cause a reduction in the demand for our services. If the recession is prolonged or worsens, our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted and we could become more vulnerable to further adverse general economic and industry conditions. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital. During the second half of 2008 and continuing in 2009, the financial markets experienced extreme volatility. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit our access to capital. In December 2008, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement that made a portion of the facility subject to syndication to other financial institutions. If we are not able to successfully syndicate those portions of our facility we will need to seek additional financing in order to complete our jackup rig construction program. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors including market and general economic conditions, the availability of capital, and the possibility that investors could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term projects. If we are not able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our industry is highly competitive, cyclical and subject to intense price competition. Due to our lack of operating history, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive with contracts traditionally awarded on a competitive bid basis. The rigs’ technical capabilities, availability and pricing are often the primary factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Other key factors include a contractor’s reputation for service, safety record, environmental record, technical and engineering support and long-term relationships with national and international oil companies. Our competitors in the offshore contract drilling industry generally have larger, more diverse fleets, longer operating histories that have established safety and environmental records over a measurable period of time, experienced in-house technical and engineering support departments and long-term relationships with customers. This provides our competitors with competitive advantages that may adversely affect our efforts to contract the rigs on favorable terms, if at all, and correspondingly negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. The offshore contract drilling industry, historically, has been very cyclical with periods of high demand, limited rig supply and high dayrates alternating with periods of low demand, excess rig supply and low dayrates. Periods of low demand and excess rig supply intensify competition in the industry and often result in some rigs becoming idle for long periods of time. Our lack of operating history may put us at a competitive disadvantage and result in our rigs being idle. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates, or extended idle time, could result in the recognition of impairment charges on our rigs if cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of the rigs may not be recoverable. Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations will be subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, fires and pollution. The occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to or destruction of the property and equipment involved, injury or death to rig personnel, and environmental damage. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of rig or drillship personnel as a result of our drilling operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our operations will be subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our rigs could be damaged by high winds, turbulent seas, or unstable sea bottom conditions which could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until the damages are repaired. 10 Table of Contents Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies and other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas. Insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our rigs, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, clients generally assume, and indemnify against, well control and subsurface risks under dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. We may not be able to obtain agreement from customers to indemnify us for such damages and risks. Additionally, even if clients agree to indemnify us, there can be no assurance, however, that clients will necessarily be financially able to indemnify us against all these risks. Failure to obtain deliveries of the jackup rigs may have a material and adverse effect on Vantage. At this time only one of the rigs is operational. The other jackup rigs may not be completed, delivered to us or acceptable to our clients. We may not be able to secure any drilling contracts for the rigs now or in the future. Any failure to obtain drilling contracts for any or all of the rigs may have a material and adverse effect on our results of operations and viability as a business. There may be limits to our ability to mobilize rigs between geographic markets and the time and costs of such rig mobilizations may be material to its business. The offshore contract drilling market is generally a global market as rigs may be mobilized from one market to another market. However, geographic markets can, from time to time, have material fluctuations as the ability to mobilize rigs can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to, governmental regulation and customs practices, the significant costs to move a rig, availability of tow boats, weather, and the technical capability of the rigs to operate in various environments. Additionally, while a rig is being mobilized from one geographic market to another, we may not be paid by our client for the time out of service or may mobilize the rig without a customer contract which will result in a lack of revenues that may be material to its results of operations and financial position. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. We do not expect operating and maintenance costs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrate. However, costs for operating a rig are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. In addition, should the rigs incur idle time between contracts, we would typically maintain the crew to prepare the rig for its next contract and would not reduce costs to correspond to the decrease in revenue. During times of moderate activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as the crew may be required to prepare the rigs for stacking, after which time the crew will be reduced to a level necessary to maintain the rig in working condition with the extra crew members assigned to active rigs or dismissed. In addition, as rigs are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. Our business is subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on it for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Our operations and activities in the United States will be subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Additionally, other countries where we operate have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs or both. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations or materially increase our costs or both. 11 Table of Contents Any ban of offshore drilling by any city, state, or nation, or by any governing body may have a material and adverse affect on our business. Events in recent years have heightened environmental and regulatory concerns about the oil and gas industry. From time to time, governing bodies may propose legislation that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. To date, no proposals which would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in our expected areas of operation have been enacted into law. However, governing bodies may enact such laws now or in the future. If laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our expected areas of operation we could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in laws, effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, both domestically and internationally. Tax laws and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon its interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. If any country successfully challenges our income tax filings based on our operational structure there, or if we otherwise lose a material dispute, our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. New technology and/or products may cause our jackup rigs to become less competitive. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Most of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that will allow them to enjoy technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement new technology or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Thus, our ability to effectively use and implement new and emerging technology may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurs. As a result of the number of catastrophic events in the contract offshore industry in recent years, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums and increased restrictions on coverage and have made other coverages unavailable. While we will attempt to obtain, and believe we can obtain, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, would be adequate should a catastrophic event occur related to our property, plant, equipment, or product, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. When any of our coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate replacement coverage will be available, offered at reasonable costs, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of the rigs could have a materially adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or company liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages which may significantly impair our ability to obtain such insurance coverage in the future. 12 Table of Contents We will incur substantial amounts of debt that may limit the cash flow available for its operations and place it at a competitive disadvantage. We will incur a substantial amount of debt to fund the construction of the jackup rigs. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to you and your investment in our securities. For example, our level of indebtedness may: · require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, which may limit our ability to carry out our business strategy; · result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase and we have outstanding floating rate borrowings; or · heighten our vulnerability to downturns in business or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions. Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. Our international operations are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties not generally associated with domestic operations. The primary component of our business strategy is to operate in international oil and natural gas producing areas. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including: · political, social and economic instability, war and acts of terrorism; · potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; · damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; · piracy; · increased operating costs; · complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; · repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts; · limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage in certain areas; · import-export quotas; · confiscatory taxation; · work stoppages; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · wage and price controls; · imposition of trade barriers; · imposition or changes in enforcement of local content laws; · restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; · currency fluctuations and devaluations; and · other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. Our financial condition and results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that may occur in the particular country or region in which we are active. Additionally, we may experience currency exchange losses where revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not hedge an exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Many governments favor or effectively require that drilling contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when bidding for contracts against local competitors. 13 Table of Contents Our contract drilling operations will be subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and natural gas exploration and development, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, the use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors and duties on the importation and exportation of units and other equipment. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. Construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our available cash resources and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy we will contract from time to time for the construction of rigs and drillships. We currently have contracts for the construction of three jackup rigs. Additionally, we will oversee and manage the construction of three ultra-deepwater drillships and one ultra-deepwater semisubmersible for third parties. Our rig construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: · unexpectedly long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; · shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; · unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; · unforeseen design and engineering problems; · unanticipated actual or purported change orders; · work stoppages; · latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; · failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; · disputes with shipyards and suppliers; · delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; · financial or other difficulties at shipyards; · adverse weather conditions; and · inability to obtain required permits or approvals. We may experience delays and costs overruns in the construction of these rigs due to certain of the factors listed above. Any delays could put at risk our planned arrangements to commence operations on schedule and subject us to penalties for such failure. Significant cost overruns or delays would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, capital expenditures for these projects could exceed our planned capital expenditures. Failure to complete a construction project on time may, in some circumstances, result in the delay, renegotiation or cancellation of a drilling contract. Our financial condition may be adversely effected if we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire, or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. The acquisition of assets or businesses that we believe to be complementary to our drilling operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. Any such transactions could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash, the incurrence of a substantial amount of debt or the issuance of a substantial amount of equity. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our securities. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: · the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations; 14 Table of Contents · the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and · the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We will require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services to and support for our rigs and drillships. In periods of increasing activity and when the number of operating units in our areas of operation increases, either because of new construction, re-activation of idle units or the mobilization of units into the region, shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages and difficulty in staffing. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel also could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of our skilled labor force. Compliance with or a breach of environmental laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations will be subject to regulations that require us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals, control the discharge of materials into the environment, require the removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Some of these laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. Our credit agreement imposes significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability to: · make investments and other restricted payments, including dividends; · incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; · create or incur liens; · receive dividend or other payments from our subsidiaries to us; · sell our assets or consolidate or merge with or into other companies; and · engage in transactions with affiliates. These limitations are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions. Our credit agreement also requires us to maintain a minimum working capital ratio and fixed charge coverage ratio and maximum leverage ratio and net debt to capitalization ratio. Our compliance with these provisions may materially adversely affect our ability to react to changes in market conditions, take advantage of business opportunities we believe to be desirable, obtain future financing, fund needed capital expenditures, finance our acquisitions, equipment purchases and development expenditures, or withstand a future downturn in our business. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness or in current or future debt financing agreements, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that we have borrowed. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. If a default occurs under these agreements, lenders could terminate their commitments to lend or accelerate the outstanding loans and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Borrowings under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, that financing might not be on terms that are favorable or acceptable. If we were unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding against collateral. 15 Table of Contents Market conditions may dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage or turnkey basis, rather than on a dayrate basis, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and result of operations. During cyclical periods of depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a rig that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable rig at a lower daily rate. As a result, our potential customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, the customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety related issues, if the rig is a total loss or in other specified circumstances. Some of our contracts may include terms allowing them to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of our contracts with our customers are terminated due to downtime or operational problems. We may enter into contracts that are cancelable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a rig being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. While we intend to perform our services on a dayrate basis, market conditions may dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage basis, whereby we are paid a fixed amount for each foot drilled regardless of the time required or the problems encountered in drilling the well, or enter into turnkey contracts, whereby it agrees to drill a well to a specific depth for a fixed price and bear some of the well equipment costs. These types of contracts are more risky than a dayrate contract as the company would be subject to downhole geologic conditions in the well that cannot always be accurately determined and subject it to greater risk associated with equipment and downhole tool failures. Unfavorable downhole geologic conditions and equipment and downhole tool failures may result in significant costs increase or may result in a decision to abandon a well project which would result in the Company not being able to invoice revenues for providing services. Such unfavorable costs increases or loss of revenue could have a material adverse impact on its financial position and result of operations. Dependence on Key Personnel—The loss of some key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. Our future operations performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of management as well as marketing, sales and operations personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel would have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and operations personnel. We have experienced intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. SOX 404 Compliance—While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required complying with the management certification requirements of, and preparing for the auditor attestation under, Section 404. As a result, we incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. While we have been able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be adequate in the future to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we might be susceptible to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our ordinary shares. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets has lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. A slowdown in economic activity caused by a recession has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Benchmark crude prices peaked at over $140 per barrel in July 2008 and then declined dramatically to approximately $45 per barrel at yearend. During 2009, the benchmark for crude prices has fluctuated between the mid $30’s per barrel and mid $40’s per barrel. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices could depress the immediate levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our financial position if they are determined to cause an impairment of our long-lived assets. The global financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related instability in the global financial system has had, and may continue to have, an impact on our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to access such markets, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. The credit crisis could have an impact on the lenders participating in our credit facilities or on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ordinary Shares Ownership of our Ordinary Shares by F3 Capital—Because Hsin-Chi Su, through his ownership of F3 Capital, will continue to hold a significant interest in us, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions will be limited. As of March 1, 2009, F3 Capital owns approximately 48.0% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Upon completion of the restructuring agreement for the Platinum Explorer and assuming conversion of outstanding loans, F3 Capital will own approximately 67.0% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Through his ownership of F3 Capital, Hsin-Chi Su, one of our directors, will have significant influence over matters such as the election of our directors; control over business, policies and affairs; and other matters submitted to our shareholders. Additional sales of our ordinary shares or warrants by F3 Capital or our employees or issuances by us in connection with future acquisitions or otherwise could cause the price of our securities to decline. If F3 Capital sells a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the future, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The perception among investors that these sales may occur could produce the same effect. Furthermore, if we were to include ordinary shares in a registration statement initiated by us, those additional shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our ordinary shares. One component of our business strategy is to make acquisitions. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue additional ordinary shares, which would have the effect of diluting your percentage ownership of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our ordinary shares, so investors in our ordinary shares may not receive funds without selling their shares. We do not intend to declare or pay regular dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Instead, we generally intend to invest any future earnings in our business. Subject to Cayman Islands law, our board of directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, and the amount of any dividends in light of any applicable contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends, our earnings and cash flows, our capital requirements, our financial condition, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our credit agreement restricts our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our equity securities. Accordingly, shareholders may have to sell some or all of their ordinary shares in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Shareholders may not receive a gain on their investment when they sell our ordinary shares and may lose the entire amount of their investment. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are an exempted company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and substantially all of our assets will be located outside the United States. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2007 Revision) (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) (the “Companies Law”) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are, to a large extent, governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: 17 Table of Contents · to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and · to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Certain differences in corporate law in the Cayman Islands and the United States could discourage or prevent our acquisition. Cayman Islands companies are governed by, among others laws, the Companies Laws. The Companies Law is modeled on English Law but does not follow recent English Law statutory enactments, and differs from laws applicable to United States corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of some significant differences between the provisions of the Companies Law applicable to us and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in the United States and their shareholders. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. Cayman Island law does not provide for mergers as that expression is generally understood under the corporate laws of the various states of the United States. While Cayman Islands law does have statutory provisions that facilitate the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies in certain circumstances, commonly referred to in the Cayman Islands as a “scheme of arrangement” which may be tantamount to a merger, reconstructions and amalgamations can be achieved through other means to these statutory provisions, such as a share capital exchange, asset acquisition or control, through contractual arrangements, of an operating business. In the event that these statutory provisions are used (which are more rigorous and take longer to complete than the procedures typically required to consummate a merger in the United States), the arrangement in question must be approved by a majority in number of each class of shareholders and creditors with whom the arrangement is to be made and who must in addition represent three-fourths in value of each such class of shareholders or creditors, as the case may be, that are present and voting either in person or by proxy at a meeting, or meeting summoned for that purpose. The convening of the meetings and subsequently the terms of the arrangement must be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. While a dissenting shareholder would have the right to express to the court the view that the transaction ought not be approved, the court can be expected to approve the arrangement if it satisfies itself that: · we are not proposing to act illegally or beyond the scope of our corporate authority and the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been complied with; · the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question; · the arrangement is such as a businessman would reasonably approve; and · the arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law or that would amount to a “fraud on the minority.” When a takeover offer is made and accepted by holders of 90% of the shares to which the offer applies within four months, the offeror may, within a two-month period, require the holders of the remaining shares to transfer such shares on the terms of the offer. An objection can be made to the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands but this is unlikely to succeed unless there is evidence of fraud, bad faith, collusion or inequitable treatment of the shareholders. If the arrangement and reconstruction is thus approved, the dissenting shareholder would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights, which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of United States corporations, providing rights to receive payment in cash for the judicially determined value of the shares. Shareholders’ Suits. Our Cayman Islands counsel is not aware of any reported class action or derivative action having been successfully brought in a Cayman Islands court. In principle, we will normally be the proper plaintiff and a claim against us (for example) or our officers or directors may not be brought by a shareholder. However, based on English authorities, which would in all likelihood be of persuasive authority and be applied by a court in the Cayman Islands, exceptions to the foregoing principle apply in circumstances in which: · a company is acting or proposing to act illegally or beyond the scope of its authority; · the act complained of, although not beyond the scope of the authority, could be effected if duly authorized by more than the number of votes which have actually been obtained; or 18 Table of Contents · those who control the company are perpetrating a “fraud on the minority.” A shareholder may have a direct right of action against the company where the individual rights of that shareholder have been infringed or are about to be infringed. Enforcement of Civil Liabilities—Holders of ordinary shares may have difficulty obtaining or enforcing a judgment against us because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. Additionally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize a foreign judgment as the basis for a claim at common law in the Cayman Islands provided such judgment: · is given by a competent foreign court; · imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given; · is final; · is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and · was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 