Risk Factors We may be unable to pay dividends Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy to pay a variable quarterly dividend equal to our Cash Available for Distribution from the previous quarter, subject to any reserves the board of directors may from time to time determine are required for prudent conduct of its business. Cash Available for Distribution represents net income (loss), plus depreciation and amortization, unrealized losses from derivatives, non-cash items and any write-offs or other non-recurring items, less unrealized gains from derivatives and net income attributable to the historical results of vessels acquired by us from Teekay Corporation, prior to their acquisition by us, for the period when these vessels were owned and operated by Teekay Corporation. The amount of Cash Available for Distribution principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based upon, among other things: • the cyclicality in the spot tanker market; • the rates we obtain from our spot charters and time charters; • the price and level of production of, and demand for, crude oil; • the level of our operating costs, such as the cost of crews and insurance; • the number of offhire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for drydocking of our vessels; • delays in the delivery of any newbuilding vessels; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; and • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business. The actual amount of Cash Available for Distribution also will depend upon other factors, such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for maintaining existing vessels and acquiring new vessels, which we expect will be substantial; • our debt service requirements and restrictions on distributions contained in our credit agreements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; and • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors, including reserves for working capital and other matters. In addition, the declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors and compliance with the laws of the Republic of The Marshall Islands. 8 Table of Contents We depend significantly upon spot charters and any decrease in spot-charter rates may adversely affect our earnings and out ability to pay dividends Our fleet is comprised of nine double-hull Aframax tankers and six double-hull Suezmax tankers. As of March 1, 2011, seven of these vessels were operating in the spot market through participation in pooling arrangements managed by subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation. In addition, we may employ in the spot market any additional vessels that we may acquire in the future or existing vessels upon the expiration of related time charters. Although the number of vessels in our fleet that participates in the spot market will vary from time to time, we anticipate that a significant portion of our fleet will participate in this market. As a result, our financial performance will be significantly affected by conditions in the oil tanker spot market and only our vessels that operate under fixed-rate time charters may, during the period such vessels operate under such time charters, provide a fixed source of revenue to us. The spot market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and traveling unladen to pick up cargo. In the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. Future spot rates may decline significantly and may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot market to operate profitably or for us to pay dividends. We may hedge our exposure to the spot market’s volatility by entering into financial instruments such as freight forward agreements with respect to one or more of our tankers. This hedging technique, which would guarantee minimum revenues for the tankers subject to the agreements, could limit our profits during periods of rising spot-charter rates. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates, which may adversely affect our earnings. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. If the tanker market is depressed, our earnings and Cash Available for Distribution may decrease. Our exposure to industry business cycles is more acute because of our exposure to the spot market, which is more volatile than the tanker industry generally. Our ability to operate profitably in the spot market and to recharter our other vessels upon the expiration or termination of their charters will depend upon, among other factors, economic conditions in the tanker market. The factors affecting the supply of and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Key factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • demand for oil and oil products; • supply of oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Key factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; • the number of vessels that are out of service; and • environmental concerns and regulations. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price and the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and in the supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents The continuation of recent economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to grow. The recent economic downturn and financial crisis in the global markets have produced illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks, and reduced access to capital markets. If this economic downturn continues, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or bank lending, which may make it more difficult and costly to fund future growth. The decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The recent economic downturn may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The recent economic downturn in the global financial markets may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customers’ inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot determine whether the difficult conditions in the economy and the financial markets will improve or worsen in the near future. Our ability to grow may be adversely affected by our dividend policy. Our dividend policy requires us to distribute all of our Cash Available for Distribution on a quarterly basis, subject to any reserves that our board of directors may determine are required for prudent conduct of its business. Accordingly, our growth, if any, may not be as fast as businesses that reinvest their cash to expand ongoing operations. In determining the amount of Cash Available for Distribution, our board of directors will consider contingent liabilities, the terms of our credit facilities, our other cash needs and the requirements of Marshall Islands law. We believe that we will generally finance any maintenance and expansion capital expenditures from cash balances or external financing sources (including borrowings under credit facilities and potential debt or equity issuances). To the extent we do not have sufficient cash reserves or are unable to obtain financing for these purposes, our dividend policy may significantly impair our ability to meet our financial needs or to grow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet, which may reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet and we generally expect to finance these maintenance capital expenditures with cash balances or undrawn credit facilities. We anticipate growing our fleet through the acquisition of tankers from third parties or the acquisition of additional tankers which Teekay Corporation has agreed to offer us, or other tankers we expect Teekay Corporation will offer us from time to time in the future, which would increase the level of our maintenance capital expenditures. Subsequent to our initial public offering, we have acquired two Aframax tankers and six Suezmax tankers from Teekay Corporation. Maintenance capital expenditures include capital expenditures associated with drydocking a vessel, modifying an existing vessel or acquiring a new vessel to the extent these expenditures are incurred to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These expenditures could increase as a result of changes in: • the cost of labor and materials; • customer requirements; • increases in our fleet size or the cost of replacement vessels; • governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment; and • competitive standards. In addition, maintenance capital expenditures will vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the number of vessels drydocked during that quarter. Significant maintenance capital expenditures may reduce the amount of any dividends to our stockholders. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally will be required to make significant installment payments for any acquisitions of newbuilding vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our ability to pay dividends may be diminished, our financial leverage could increase or our stockholders’ ownership interest in us could be diluted. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We intend to expand our fleet by acquiring tankers from third parties or from Teekay Corporation. Our acquisitions may also include newbuilding vessels (or newbuildings). We generally will be required to make installment payments on any newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically would pay 20% of the purchase price of a tanker upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel will not occur until much later (approximately two to three years from the order). To fund expansion capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash balances or cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Use of cash from operations will reduce the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and on our ability to pay dividends. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder ownership or dividend dilution. 10 Table of Contents Changes in the oil markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting oil depends upon world and regional oil markets. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, including competition from alternative energy sources. Past slowdowns of the U.S. and world economies have resulted in reduced consumption of oil products and decreased demand for our vessels and services, which reduced vessel earnings. Additional slowdowns could have similar effects on our operating results and may limit our ability to expand our fleet. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in the Middle East, Afghanistan and Libya and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and ability to raise capital and future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines, oil fields or other infrastructure could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil to be shipped by us could entitle customers to terminate the charters which would harm our cash flow and business. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2010, the frequency and severity of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being named on the Joint War Committee Listed Areas, war risk insurance premiums payable for such coverage can increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our results of operations. The global economy recently experienced an economic downturn and crisis in the global financial markets that produced illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks and reduced access to capital markets. If there is economic instability in the future, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or secured debt lenders, such as our revolving credit facilities. The decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Future adverse economic conditions may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customer’s inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. The decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on Teekay Corporation to assist us in operating our business and competing in our markets, and our business will be harmed if Teekay Corporation fails to assist us. We have entered into a long-term management agreement (or the Management Agreement) with Teekay Tankers Management Services Ltd. (or our Manager), a subsidiary of Teekay Corporation, pursuant to which our Manager provides to us commercial, technical, administrative and strategic services, including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by our Manager. Our business will be harmed if our Manager fails to perform these services satisfactorily, if it stops providing these services to us or if it terminates the Management Agreement, as it is entitled to do under certain circumstances. The circumstances under which we are able to terminate the Management Agreement are extremely limited and do not include mere dissatisfaction with our Manager’s performance. In addition, upon any termination of the Management Agreement, we may lose our ability to benefit from economies of scale in purchasing supplies and other advantages that we believe our relationship with Teekay Corporation provides. Furthermore, the profitable operation of our tankers that participate in tanker pooling arrangements depends largely on the efforts of the pool managers (which are affiliates of Teekay Corporation), Teekay Corporation’s participation in the pooling arrangements and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. Under the pooling arrangements, the earnings and voyage expenses of all of the vessels in pools are aggregated, or pooled, and divided according to an agreed formula. If Teekay Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: • maximize revenues of our tankers included in the pooling arrangements; • acquire new tankers or obtain new time charters; • renew existing time charters upon their expiration; • successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. 11 Table of Contents The operation of a significant number of our tankers in the Teekay Pool and the Gemini Pool could limit our earnings. As of March 1, 2011, four of our Aframax tankers and three of our Suezmax tankers operated in, and generated revenues to us through participation in, an Aframax tanker pooling arrangement (the Teekay Pool) and a Suezmax tanker pooling arrangement (the Gemini Pool), respectively, each managed by subsidiaries of Teekay Corporation. Pooling arrangements are designed to spread the costs and risks associated with commercial management of vessels and to share the net revenues earned by all of the vessels in the pool. Although the net revenues are apportioned based on the actual earning days each vessel is available and, with respect to the Teekay Pool, the relative performance capabilities of each vessel as well, a pool may include vessels that do not perform as well in actual operation as our vessels. As a result, our share of the net pool revenues may be less than what we could earn operating our vessels independently. The removal of any vessels from the Teekay Pool, the Gemini Pool, or any other pooling arrangement may adversely affect our operating results and ability to pay dividends. We and Teekay Corporation have each committed to include in the Teekay Pool all of our and its respective Aframax-class crude tankers that are less than 15 years old and employed in the spot market or operate pursuant to time charters of less than 90 days. Participants in the Gemini Pool, including Teekay Corporation and third parties, have each agreed to include in the pool certain qualifying Suezmax-class crude tankers of the pool participants and their respective affiliates, including us, that operate in the spot market or pursuant to time charters of less than one year. If we or Teekay Corporation remove vessels in the Teekay Pool or the Gemini Pool to operate under longer-term time charters, the benefits to us of the pooling arrangements could diminish. In addition, the European Union is in the process of substantially reforming the way it regulates traditional agreements for maritime services from an antitrust perspective. These changes may impose new restrictions on the way pools are operated or may prohibit pooling arrangements altogether. If for any reason our vessels, Teekay Corporation’s vessels, or any third party vessels cease to participate in the Teekay Pool, the Gemini Pool or another pooling arrangement, or if the pooling arrangements are significantly restricted, we may not achieve the benefits intended by pool participation and our results of operations and ability to pay dividends could be harmed. Our failure to renew or replace fixed-rate charters could cause us to trade the related vessels in the spot market, which could adversely affect our operating results and make them more volatile. As of March 1, 2011, eight of our tankers operated under fixed-rate time-charter contracts, three of which expire in 2011, and five in 2012. If upon their scheduled expiration or any early termination we are unable to renew or replace fixed-rate charters on favorable terms, if at all, or if we choose not to renew or replace these fixed-rate charters, we may employ the vessels in the volatile spot market. Increasing our exposure to the spot market, particularly during periods of unfavorable market conditions, could harm our results of operations and make them more volatile. Our vessels operate in the highly competitive international tanker market. The operation of oil tankers and transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products are extremely competitive businesses. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies and independent tanker companies, some of which have substantially greater financial strength and capital than do we or Teekay Corporation. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price and the location, size, age, condition of the tanker and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. Our competitive position may erode over time. We may not be able to grow or to manage our growth effectively. One of our principal strategies is to continue to grow by expanding our operations and adding vessels to our fleet. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include our ability to: • identify suitable tankers or shipping companies for acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrate successfully any acquired tankers or businesses with our existing operations; and • obtain required financing for our existing and any new operations. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or Teekay Corporation, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any tankers or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our financial condition and performance. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flows sufficient to justify the investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flows, liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our tankers operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in tanker demand and, therefore, in spot-charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the northern hemisphere but weaker in the summer months as a result of lower oil consumption in the northern hemisphere and refinery maintenance. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns during the winter months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling, which historically has increased oil price volatility and oil trading activities in the winter months. As a result, revenues generated by the tankers in our fleet have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and stronger in our fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Delays in deliveries of any newbuildings could harm our operating results. The delivery of any newbuilding that we may order could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues related to the vessel. The completion and delivery of newbuildings could be delayed because of: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake, tsunami or fire; • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • an inability to finance the construction of the vessels; or • an inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is significantly delayed, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline substantially, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing or our operating results. Vessel values for oil tankers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors. Vessel values may decline substantially from existing levels, as they did as a result of the recent global economic crisis. If the operation of a tanker is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a chartered tanker at attractive rates upon charter termination, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Inability to dispose of vessels at a reasonable value could result in a loss on their sale and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, one of our credit facilities contains loan-to-value financial covenants tied to the value of the two vessels that collateralize this credit facility. Significant decline in the market values of these tankers may require prepayments to avoid a default under this credit facility. Further, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. 13 Table of Contents An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Under our Management Agreement, we must reimburse our Manager for vessel operating expenses (including crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lube oils and communication expenses), and in addition for spot or voyage charters, voyage expenses (including bunker fuel expenses, port fees, cargo loading and unloading expenses, canal tolls, agency fees and conversions). These expenses depend upon a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our or our Manager’s control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to fuel, insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing and may increase in the future. Increases in any of these costs would decrease our earnings and may decrease the amount of any dividends to our stockholders. We are unable to quantify in advance the amount of fees we will pay under our Management Agreement, which vary from period to period. We are unable to quantify in advance the fees for services provided to us under our Management Agreement because the payment amounts due and the particular amounts or mix of services to be provided under that agreement are based upon costs of our Manager and based on the revenues earned in the pools and from time charters. The aggregate amount of these fees varies from period to period, which affects the amount of our Cash Available for Distribution. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying dividends. As of December 31, 2010, our long-term debt was approximately $454.0 million and an additional $174.2 million was available to us under our $616.5 million revolving credit facility. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our revolving credit facility. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, business opportunities and dividends to our stockholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facility, term loan and in any of our future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements may restrict our ability to: • pay dividends; • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • grant liens on our assets; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under financing agreements could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans. 14 Table of Contents Restrictions in our debt agreements may prevent us from paying dividends. The payment of principal and interest on our debt reduces the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. In addition, our revolving credit facility prohibits and other financing agreements may prohibit the payment of dividends upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • failure to notify the lenders of any material oil spill or discharge of hazardous material, or of any action or claim related thereto; • breach or lapse of any insurance with respect to vessels securing the facility; • breach of certain financial covenants; • failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; • default under other indebtedness; • bankruptcy or insolvency events; • failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; • a change of control, as defined in the applicable agreement; and • a material adverse effect, as defined in the applicable agreement. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we engage in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, including by reducing the levels of oil exploration, development and production activities in these areas. We derive some of our revenues from shipping oil from politically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have included attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where we operate or where we may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries to which we trade may limit trading activities with those countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our cash flow and financial results. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of product or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical or electrical failures; • grounding, capsizing, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or damage to the environment and natural resources; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from charters; • liabilities or costs to recover any spilled oil or other petroleum products and to restore the eco-system affected by the spill; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 Table of Contents Insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our vessels or result from our operations. The operation of oil tankers is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risks) and protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not generally carry insurance on our vessels covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel offhire time based on its cost compared to our offhire experience. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. Our Manager may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill or marine disaster could exceed the insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than existing coverage. The shipping industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit operations and increase expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements can affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. For further information about regulations affecting our business and related requirements on us, please read “