risk factors discussed in this Annual Report; and · other factors, many of which are beyond our control. This list is not exhaustive of the factors that may affect our forward-looking statements. Some of the important risks and uncertainties that could affect forward-looking statements are described further under the section headings “Item 1. Business,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of this Annual Report. Although we have attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary, possibly materially, from those anticipated, believed, estimated or expected. We caution readers not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report by the foregoing cautionary statements. GLOSSARY OF TERMS Conversion Factors and Abbreviations All units in this Annual Report are stated in metric measurements unless otherwise noted. For ease of reference, the following conversion factors are provided: To Convert Imperial Measurement Units To Metric Measurement Units Multiply by Acres Hectares 0.4047 Feet Meters 0.3048 Miles Kilometers 1.6093 Tons (short) Tonnes 0.9071 Gallons Liters 3.7850 Ounces (troy) Grams 31.103 Ounces (troy) per ton (short) Grams per tonne 34.286 We report our mineralized material under two separate standards to meet the requirements for reporting in both Canada and the United States. Canadian reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties are governed by National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”). The definitions in NI 43-101 are adopted from those given by the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy and Petroleum (“CIM”). United States reporting requirements for disclosure of mineral properties are governed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) Industry Guide 7. These reporting standards have similar goals in terms of conveying an appropriate level of confidence in the disclosures being reported but embody differing approaches and definitions. We estimate and report our mineralized material according to the definitions set forth in NI 43-101 and modify them as appropriate to conform to SEC Industry Guide 7 for reporting in the United States. The definitions for each reporting standard are presented below with supplementary explanation and descriptions of the similarities and differences. 3 NI 43-101 Definitions Mineral Reserve The term “Mineral Reserve” refers to the economically mineable part of a Measured or Indicated Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. The study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction can be justified. A Mineral Reserve includes diluting materials and allowances for losses that may occur when the material is mined. Proven Mineral Reserve The term “Proven Mineral Reserve” refers to the economically mineable part of a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified. Probable Mineral Reserve The term “Probable Mineral Reserve” refers to the economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some circumstances, a Measured Mineral Resource demonstrated by at least a preliminary feasibility study. This study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic, and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified. Mineral Resource The term “Mineral Resource” refers to a concentration or occurrence of diamonds, natural solid inorganic material, or natural solid fossilized organic material including base and precious metals, coal, rare earth elements and industrial minerals in or on the earth's crust in such form and quantity and of such a grade or quality that it has reasonable prospects for economic extraction. The location, quantity, grade, geological characteristics and continuity of a Mineral Resource are known, estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and knowledge. Measured Mineral Resource The term “Measured Mineral Resource” refers to that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics are so well established that they can be estimated with confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support production planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration, sampling and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough to confirm both geological and grade continuity. Indicated Mineral Resource The term “Indicated Mineral Resource” refers to that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, densities, shape and physical characteristics can be estimated with a level of confidence sufficient to allow the appropriate application of technical and economic parameters, to support mine planning and evaluation of the economic viability of the deposit. The estimate is based on detailed and reliable exploration and testing information gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes that are spaced closely enough for geological and grade continuity to be reasonably assumed. Inferred Mineral Resource The term “Inferred Mineral Resource” refers to that part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade or quality can be estimated on the basis of geological evidence and limited sampling and reasonably assumed, but not verified, geological and grade continuity. The estimate is based on limited information and sampling gathered through appropriate techniques from locations such as outcrops, trenches, pits, workings and drill holes. 4 Qualified Person(1) The term “Qualified Person” refers to an individual who is an engineer or geoscientist with at least five years of experience in mineral exploration, mine development or operation or mineral project assessment, or any combination of these, and has experience relevant to the subject matter of the mineral project, and the technical report and is a member in good standing of a professional association. SEC Industry Guide 7 Definitions Reserve The term “Reserve” refers to that part of a mineral deposit that could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Reserves must be supported by a feasibility study(2) done to bankable standards that demonstrates their economic extraction (“bankable standards” implies that the confidence attached to the costs and achievements developed in the study is sufficient for the project to be eligible for external debt financing). A reserve includes adjustments to the in-situ tonnes and grade to include diluting materials and allowances for losses that might occur when the material is mined. Proven Reserve The term “Proven Reserve” refers to reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well-defined that size, shape, depth and mineral content of reserves are well established. Probable Reserve The term “Probable Reserve” refers to reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance, although lower than that for proven reserves, is high enough to assume continuity between points of observation. Mineralized Material(3) The term “Mineralized Material” refers to material that is not included in the reserve as it does not meet all of the criteria for adequate demonstration for economic or legal extraction. Non-Reserves The term “Non-Reserves” refers to mineralized material that is not included in the reserve as it does not meet all of the criteria for adequate demonstration for economic or legal extraction. Exploration Stage An “Exploration Stage” prospect is one that is not in either the development or production stage. Development Stage A “Development Stage” project is one that is undergoing preparation of an established commercially mineable deposit for ore extraction but that is not yet in production. This stage occurs after completion of a feasibility study. Production Stage A “Production Stage” project is actively engaged in the process of extraction and beneficiation of Mineral Reserves to produce a marketable metal or mineral product. (1) SEC Industry Guide 7 does not require designation of a Qualified Person. (2) For SEC Industry Guide 7 purposes, the feasibility study must include adequate information on mining, processing, metallurgical, economic and other relevant factors that demonstrate, at the time of reporting, that economic extraction is justified. (3) This category is substantially equivalent to the combined categories of Measured Mineral Resource and Indicated Mineral Resource specified in NI 43-101. 5 Additional Definitions assay – a measure of the valuable mineral content. bastnasite – a mixed lanthanide fluoro-carbonate mineral (LaCO3F) that currently provides the bulk of the world's supply of the LREEs. Bastnasite and monazite are the two most common sources of cerium and other REEs. Bastnasite is found in carbonatites, carbonate rocks of igneous derivation. beneficiation – operations that concentrate and separate mineral values in ore from waste material, and typically include, but are not limited to, crushing, grinding, washing, filtration, and leaching. cerium (“Ce”) – a soft, silvery, ductile metallic element that easily oxidizes in air. Ce is the most abundant of the REEs and is found in a number of minerals, including monazite and bastnasite. Ce has two relatively stable oxidation states (Ce3+ and Ce4+), enabling both the storage of oxygen and its widespread use in catalytic converters. Ce is also widely used in glass polishing. concentrate – a mineral processing product that generally describes the material that is produced after crushing and grinding ore, effecting significant separation of gangue (waste) minerals from the desired metal and/or metallic minerals, and discarding the waste minerals. The resulting “concentrate” of minerals typically has an order of magnitude higher content of minerals than the beginning ore material. critical rare earth elements (“CREE”) – Nd, Eu, Dy, Tb and Y were identified by the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) as “critical” in its 2011 Critical Materials Strategy Report. CREEs are those projected by the DOE to have the greatest economic importance for clean energy development and highest risk of supply disruption. The Company includes Pr as a CREE because of its use in conjunction with Nd in didymium as a raw material for high-intensity permanent magnets. cut-off grade – when determining economically viable Mineral Reserves, it is the lowest grade of mineralized material that qualifies as ore, i.e., that can be mined and processed at a profit. didymium – a mixture of the elements praseodymium and neodymium. It is used in safety glasses for glassblowing and blacksmithing, especially when a gas (propane) powered forge is used, where it provides a filter which selectively blocks the yellowish light at 589 nm emitted by the hot sodium in the glass, without having a detrimental effect on general vision, unlike dark welder's glasses. dysprosium (“Dy”) – a soft metallic element of the lanthanide series, mainly used in high-performance, permanent magnets. Dy has a high melting point and absorbs neutrons well. It is therefore also used in nuclear control rods to help control nuclear reactions. Dy is also used in laser materials. europium (“Eu”) – a very rare metallic element that is the softest member of the lanthanide series. It is used in making color television tubes and lasers and as a neutron absorber in nuclear research. It is desirable due to its photon emission. Excitation of the Eu atom, by absorption of electrons or by UV radiation, results in changes in energy levels that create a visible emission. Almost all practical uses of Eu utilize this luminescent behavior. fault – a surface or zone of rock fracture along which there has been displacement. Feasibility Study (“FS”) – a comprehensive study of a mineral deposit in which all geological, engineering, legal, operating, economic, social, environmental and other relevant factors are considered in sufficient detail that it could reasonably serve as the basis for a final decision by a financial institution to finance the development of the deposit for mineral production. FMR – mineralization that includes iron oxide, manganese oxide and rare earth elements. formation – a distinct layer or group of layers of sedimentary rock of similar composition and geological origin. 6 gadolinium (“Gd”) – a malleable, ductile metallic element of the lanthanide series that has seven natural isotopes and 11 artificial isotopes. Two of the natural isotopes, Gd 155 and Gd 157, are the best known neutron absorbers. Gd is used to improve the heat and corrosion resistance of iron, chromium, and various alloys, in medicine as a contrast medium for magnetic resonance imaging and as a radioisotope in bone mineral analysis. geochemical – related to the distribution and amounts of the chemical elements in minerals, ores, rocks, solids, water and the atmosphere. geophysical – related to the mechanical, electrical, gravitational and magnetic properties of the earth's crust. geophysical surveys – survey methods used in the mining industry as exploration tools that apply the properties and methods of physics and engineering to the earth's surface and subsurface. grade – quantity of metal per unit weight of host rock. heavy rare earth elements (“HREEs”) – defined as the elements Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Tm, Yb, Lu and Y. host rock – the rock in which a mineral or an ore body is contained. Lanthanides – a series of fifteen metallic chemical elements with atomic numbers 57 through 71, from lanthanum through lutetium. These fifteen lanthanide elements, along with the chemically similar elements scandium and yttrium, are often collectively known as the rare earth elements. lanthanum (“La”) – the first metallic element of the lanthanide series. La is a strategically important rare earth element due to its use in fluid cracking catalysts (“FCC”), which are used in the production of transportation and aircraft fuel. La is also used in fuel cells and batteries. life-of-mine – a term commonly used to refer to the likely term of a mining operation and normally determined by dividing the tonnes of Mineral Reserve by the annual rate of mining and processing. light rare earth elements (“LREEs”) – defined as the elements La, Ce, Pr, Nd, Pm, Sm, Eu and Gd. mineral – a naturally occurring, inorganic crystalline material having a definite chemical composition. mineralization – a natural accumulation or concentration of one or more potentially economic minerals in rocks or soil. Also the process by which minerals are introduced or concentrated in rocks or soil. monazite – a reddish-brown rare earth phosphate mineral. Monazite-group minerals are typically accompanied by elevated concentrations of uranium and thorium. This has historically limited the processing of monazite. However, this mineral is becoming more attractive because it typically has elevated concentrations of heavier rare earth elements. National Instrument 43-101 (“NI 43-101”) – standards of disclosure for mineral projects prescribed by the Canadian Securities Administrators. neodymium (“Nd”) – a metallic element of the lanthanide series, occurring principally in REE fluorocarbonate and monazite minerals. Nd is a key constituent of NdFeB permanent magnets and an additive to capacitor dielectrics. NdFeB magnets maximize the power/weight ratio and are found in a large variety of motors, generators, sensors, and hard disk drives. Capacitors containing Nd are found in cellular telephones, computers and nearly all other electronic devices. A minor application of Nd is for lasers. open pit – surface mining in which the ore is extracted from a pit or quarry. The geometry of the pit will vary with the characteristics of the ore body. ore – mineral-bearing rock that can be mined and treated profitably under current, or immediately foreseeable, economic conditions. ore body – a mostly solid and fairly continuous mass of mineralization estimated to be economically mineable. 7 ore grade – the average weight of the valuable metal or mineral contained in a specific weight of ore, i.e., 1.5% REO/tonne. oxide – for purposes of the deposits found at the Bear Lodge Property, rare earth bearing mineralized material that results from the complete oxidation by natural processes of sulfide-bearing material. p.a. – per annum. preliminary economic assessment (“PEA”) – a study that includes an economic analysis of the potential viability of Mineral Resources taken at an early stage of the project prior to the completion of a preliminary feasibility study. praseodymium (“Pr”) – a metallic element that constitutes about 4% of the lanthanide content of bastnasite and has a few specific applications, based mainly on its optical properties. It is a common coloring pigment, and is used in photographic filters, airport signal lenses, and welder's glasses. Because it chemically and magnetically is so similar to its periodic chart neighbors Nd and La, it is typically found in small amounts in applications where Nd and La are popular, such as NdFeB magnets and catalysts. These latter applications are actually the largest uses for Pr because the magnet and catalyst markets are so large. Thus Pr plays an important role in extending the availability of the more popular Nd and La. preliminary feasibility study or pre-feasibility study (“PFS”) – each mean a comprehensive study of the viability of a mineral project that has advanced to a stage where the mining method, in the case of underground mining, or the pit configuration, in the case of an open pit, has been established and an effective method of mineral processing has been determined. It includes a financial analysis based on reasonable assumptions of technical, engineering, legal, operating, economic, social, and environmental factors and the evaluation of other relevant factors that are sufficient for a qualified person, acting reasonably, to determine if all or part of the Mineral Resource may be classified as a Mineral Reserve under NI 43-101 standards. rare earth elements (“REE”) – a group of metallic elements with unique chemical, catalytic, magnetic, metallurgical and phosphorescent properties. rare earth oxide (“REO”) – the oxide form of REE. RC (reverse circulation) drilling – a rotary drilling method using either a hammer or a tri-cone bit to produce rock cuttings that are forced upward from the bottom of the drill hole to the surface through an outer tube, using liquid and/or air pressure moving downward through an inner tube. recovery – the percentage of contained metal actually extracted from ore in the course of processing such ore. samarium (“Sm”) – a metallic element of the lanthanide series predominantly used to produce Sm cobalt magnets. Although these magnets are slightly less powerful than NdFeB magnets at room temperature, Sm cobalt magnets can be used over a wider range of temperatures and are less susceptible to corrosion. sampling and analytical variance/precision – an estimate of the total error induced by sampling, sample preparation and analysis. stockwork – complex system of structurally controlled or randomly oriented veins that can be standalone ore bodies or occur on the periphery of larger veins. They are also referred to as stringer zones. strike – the direction or trend that a structural surface, e.g., a bedding or fault plane, takes as it intersects the horizontal. strip – to remove overburden in order to expose ore. sulfide – a mineral combining sulfur and base metals, such as iron and less commonly copper, lead, zinc and/or molybdenum; metallic sulfur-bearing mineral associated with primary REE mineralization. tailings – fine ground waste material produced from ore in the process of recovering metals or minerals. 8 total rare earth oxide (“TREO”) – refers to the sum total of REO present in a deposit. vein – a sheet-like body of mineralized rock. On many properties, veins may consist largely of quartz gangue. However, on the Bear Lodge Property, veins can contain a variable assemblage that includes, but is not limited to, gangue minerals like iron and manganese oxides, quartz, calcite, clay, apatite and/or potassium feldspar with or without ore minerals. 9 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS CORPORATE BACKGROUND Rare Element was incorporated under the laws of the Province of British Columbia, Canada, on June 3, 1999 as Spartacus Capital Inc. Our executive office is located at 225 Union Blvd., Suite 250, Lakewood, Colorado 80228. The telephone number for our executive office is (720) 278-2460. We maintain a corporate website at www.rareelementresources.com. Effective October 8, 1999, we completed our initial public offering of 1,500,000 common shares at CDN$0.20 per share, raising CDN$300,000. The common shares began trading on the predecessor exchange to the TSX Venture Exchange (“TSX-V”) in Canada on November 15, 1999 under the symbol “SCI.” Originally organized as a “capital pool” company whose activities were focused on the identification and completion of a qualifying transaction as required by the rules of the TSX-V, we transitioned to a “venture company” on July 25, 2003, coincident with (1) the completion of a reverse takeover acquisition of Rare Element Holdings Ltd. (the qualifying transaction), (2) a name change of “Spartacus Capital, Inc.,” to “Rare Element Resources Ltd.,” and (3) the completion of a CDN$551,000 private placement. Rare Element Holdings Ltd.’s main asset, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Rare Element Resources, Inc., a Wyoming corporation, is the 100% interest in a group of unpatented mining claims and adjacent property owned in fee, together known as the Bear Lodge Property. On December 20, 2004, our authorized share capital was changed from 100,000,000 common shares to an unlimited number of common shares without par value. Our common shares began trading on the NYSE MKT on August 18, 2010 under the symbol “REE.” On May 27, 2011, we graduated from a listing on the TSX-V to the Toronto Stock Exchange (“TSX”) and trade under the symbol “RES.” As of December 31, 2014, there were 47,707,216 common shares issued and outstanding. SUBSIDIARIES We have one direct wholly-owned subsidiary, incorporated under the laws of British Columbia, Canada, on July 12, 1996 under the name “Rare Element Holdings Ltd.” That subsidiary has one direct wholly owned subsidiary, Rare Element Resources, Inc., incorporated on August 21, 1997 in the state of Wyoming, USA, formerly known as Paso Rico (USA), Inc. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Rare Element is focused on advancing the Bear Lodge REE Project located near the town of Sundance in northeast Wyoming on the Bear Lodge Property. The Bear Lodge REE Project consists of a large, disseminated REE deposit and a proposed hydrometallurgical plant to be located near Upton, Wyoming. The REE deposit is the second highest grade REE deposit identified in North America and one of the highest grade known Eu deposits in the world. In addition, the Bear Lodge REE Project has a favorable distribution of the remaining CREEs. At present, we are undertaking advanced engineering, process confirmation, geological modeling and technical studies while working toward obtaining the necessary permits that will enable us to develop the Bear Lodge REE Project with the intent of commissioning the project as early as mid- 2017, subject to permitting, financing and other factors. The Bear Lodge REE Project deposit is located near excellent mining infrastructure, including good road access and a power line within two kilometers of the property. The project site is 100 kilometers east of Gillette, Wyoming, a major infrastructure, support and logistics center for coal mines in the Powder River Basin that should provide for ready access to the required production supplies and materials as well as skilled labor. The deposit site is also situated 64 kilometers from the nearest railhead at Upton, Wyoming, allowing access to major distribution channels from the proposed hydrometallurgical plant. The Bear Lodge REE Project has favorable community acceptance, and Wyoming is one of the top-ranked mining jurisdictions globally (based on the Fraser Institute’s 2015 ranking of 122 jurisdictions). Further description of the Bear Lodge REE Project and the Bear Lodge Property is included under the section heading “Item 2. Properties” in this Annual Report. 10 RECENT CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS Accomplishments in 2014 2014 was a year of significant advancements for Rare Element and its Bear Lodge REE Project on a number of critical fronts. The Company achieved a number of major milestones, including: § Finalized the update of the PFS on the Bear Lodge REE Project which indicates a 45-year project life. The economics reflect the benefits of the project’s location in northeast Wyoming and the deposit’s rich concentration of those REEs essential to critical magnet materials and high-demand phosphors. § Initiated the Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”) under National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) process. The U.S. Forest Service (“USFS”), with support from the Company, started the process in February 2014 and held a public scoping meeting in April. Alternatives identification and assessment is underway, with some sections of the draft EIS already completed. § Completed an approximately 70-meter trench on the Bull Hill mineralization that confirmed the location and trending of the high-grade zone that is planned to be the source of initial feed for the project. Excavated a 907-tonne bulk sample to be used for large-scale test work. The bulk sample has an average total rare earth (TREO) grade that exceeds 10%. § Significantly improved patent-pending recovery process technology and initiated test work on downstream elemental separation. Improvements resulted in the filing of two additional patent applications. Advancements included: * In January 2014, announced the ability to selectively isolate and economically remove nearly all of the naturally occurring thorium in the mineralization. * In November 2014, completed test work on improvements to this technology that eliminated thorium while greatly reducing the amount of cerium, the lowest value rare earth, in the concentrate. This advancement resulted in improved purity (99.999% in bench-scale testing) and reduced the mass of material that would go through further separation, which is expected to reduce the associated costs. * Bench-scale tested a post-recovery process on the concentrate that effectively separated the concentrate into light and heavy rare earth fractions. § Joined the Critical Materials Institute (CMI), a major initiative sponsored by the DOE and committed to ensuring a secure supply of the rare earths necessary to support evolving green technologies. Rare Element became one of only seven industry participants (and the second REE company), along with several national laboratories and research universities. Plans for 2015 We plan to advance the Bear Lodge REE Project during 2015, including the following tasks and initiatives: · Continue to support the USFS’s efforts to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (“EIS”) on the project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act process. The draft EIS is currently anticipated in the second half of 2015. The final EIS and draft record of decision (“ROD”) are expected in early 2016, with the final ROD anticipated in the first half of 2016. · Submit applications for mine and industrial siting permits to the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. These tasks are dependent upon completion of the alternative assessment portion of the EIS. · Test additional elemental separation methods directed at creating product baskets that meet end-users’ specific needs and maximize product value to the Company. · Initiate engineering studies, including rheology studies, final geotechnical confirmation of waste rock and tailings characteristics to support the next phase of engineering for inclusion in the FS. 11 · Exercise responsible cash management, while seeking additional funding sources to finance construction of a planned demonstration plant and ensure continued timely progress toward project construction. · Continue to cultivate relationships with potential off-take partners, including supplying upgraded product samples and providing project progress updates. · Design planned demonstration plant. · Initiate the FS, pending Board approval, incorporating PFS information, project budgets, schedules and other information. Certain planned activities and potential strategic initiatives are subject to additional financing and other factors including: · Construction of the planned demonstration plant. · Confirmation of positive results of rare earth separation test work done to date in larger-scale pilot plant testing. · Submission of application for a license to possess [radioactive] source material to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. This task is dependent upon completion of the alternative assessment portion of the EIS. TRENDS AND DESCRIPTION OF THE REE MARKET Uses for REE products REEs are used in computers, cellular telephones, TV screens, wind turbines, fuel cells, magnetic refrigeration technologies, fluorescent and LED lights, petroleum-refining catalysts and numerous other modern specialty technologies. REEs are also used in hybrid-electric vehicles and all-electric vehicles, many of which contain REE-bearing nickel-metal-hydride batteries and REE “super” magnets within electrical motors and generators. Prices of REEs are affected by the supply and demand fundamentals of the market. Trends affecting supplies of REE products Global REE supply continues to be dominated by production from China, which produced an estimated 85% of the world’s REE output in 2014, according to the Industrial Minerals Company of Australia Pty Ltd (“IMCOA”) and Curtin University. Over the past nine years China has reduced its export quotas for REEs by more than half (with a marked reduction in the summer of 2010) and increased related export taxes. The quota reductions resulted in significantly higher REE prices beginning in 2010, when quotas were reduced by approximately 40%. Since then, the slowdown in global economic growth, coupled with decreased demand due to elevated REE prices in 2010 and 2011 and significant supply from accumulated REE stockpiles, caused dramatic REE price declines from 2012 through 2014. Chinese export quotas for 2014 were set at a roughly equivalent level with those of 2013. After an initial adverse ruling from the World Trade Organization (“WTO”) in March 2014, and an affirmation of that ruling against China’s trade practices on appeal in August 2014, China abolished export quotas as of January 1, 2015, on rare earths, tungsten and molybdenum. The quotas have been replaced by an export licensing system that many industry sources believe will continue and perhaps even tighten China’s control over REE exports. The WTO ruled against the Chinese in a case brought by the U.S., Europe and Japan alleging that China’s export quotas and export taxes on rare earths violated global trade rules. China argued unsuccessfully that the quotas and taxes were needed to protect its environment and to conserve its resources, while the plaintiffs complained that the restrictions gave Chinese domestic producers an unfair competitive advantage. China has left its export taxes in place at least until early May 2015, but is reported to be working on an alternative system to achieve its objectives while still complying with WTO rules. It is expected that such a system will include imposition of a domestic, ad valorem, resource tax on REE production. 12 Global supply and demand for rare earths were estimated to be approximately in balance in 2014, based on official statistics, with continued increases in non-Chinese production from Mt. Weld (Australia) and Mountain Pass (California) offsetting slightly reduced exports from China. However, recent estimates that annual illegal mine production of rare earths in China, where environmental concerns continue to grow, might be as much as 30,000-40,000 metric tonnes (25%-30% of global supply) suggest that the REE market was in oversupply, with that condition likely to continue into 2015. Certainly, the continued gradual decline of rare earth prices in 2014 indicates that REE consumers continue to find the needed rare earths readily available. Chinese official domestic REE production is expected to increase at a rate of more than 8.5% per year from 2014 to 2017, while illegal mining is forecast to decrease by about half of the tonnage increase implied by that growth rate, as the government’s measures to consolidate the rare earth industry and curtail illegal mining progress. These two factors together imply a future overall growth rate of around 4% for domestic Chinese production. Rare earths production in the rest of the world, though only 15% of estimated production, is expected to grow at a faster rate as Lynas Corporation’s (“Lynas”) and Molycorp’s operations continue to ramp up toward their design capacity. In the quarter ended December 31, 2014, Lynas reached approximately 80% of its design production capacity of 11,000 tonnes per annum. Based on Molycorp’s fourth quarter 2014 production report, although production improved significantly, the company continues to struggle with ongoing operating problems, leaving its REE production far below its annual design capacity of 19,050 tonnes. Given their collective design capacity relative to the global market, whether Lynas and Molycorp can resolve their operating and financial difficulties could have a significant impact on future rare earths supply and pricing dynamics. Industry forecasts indicate that the overall REE market might be oversupplied for the next few years (largely based on illegal mining in China). It is expected that certain REE elements (particularly Ce and La) will represent the largest portion of this oversupply, while other elements may be more in balance or even in deficit, particularly magnet materials and HREEs. Market observers cite magnet materials especially as being at risk of short supplies in the near- to medium-term future. As a result of increased investment in the REE industry outside of China since 2009, there are several new and refurbished REE projects that are being developed that could add to the non-Chinese supply of rare earths over the next two to five years. New production began to ramp up beginning in 2013 and is expected to continue through 2015. Some market observers believe that this new production may have a negative impact on the pricing of some REE products, especially the LREEs of La and Ce. We believe that current rare earth prices and the present lack of capital available for new rare earth projects are likely to temper this anticipated production growth. According to an IMCOA report dated December 2014 (the “IMCOA Report”), REE total supply is forecasted to increase from 171,000 tonnes in 2014 to 242,500 tonnes in 2017. Trends affecting demand of REE products The global economy plays a key role in the continuation and pace of increased demand for REEs. If the global economy experiences a prolonged period of slow growth, then the projected increase in REE product demand may not occur at the pace expected. In addition, the spike in REE prices in 2010 and 2011 to extremely high levels seems to have accelerated consumers’ efforts to economize on rare earth consumption or to use substitute materials and therefore slowed the expected pace of demand growth. Based on the IMCOA Report, REE total demand is forecasted to increase from 136,000 tonnes in 2013 to 168,000 tonnes in 2017, or 23.5%, driven mainly by demand for magnet materials, metal alloys, glass polishing materials and catalysts. Based on forecasted production levels, these figures would imply a significant oversupply of total rare earths by 2017. A more detailed analysis of the supply/demand balance by element suggests that the oversupply is largely driven by significant imbalances in Ce, La and Y markets. In the IMCOA Report, the excess Ce and La production seems to be a result of demand destruction caused by very high REE prices in 2011, while the Y imbalance may be driven by the transition from fluorescent lighting to LED technology. The projected imbalances in other more highly-valued rare earth elements are much smaller, and Nd is expected to remain in relatively short supply for the next few years. 13 Certain market experts believe that demand growth for some REEs is supply constrained (e.g., magnet materials are often mentioned) and that an increase in global production of these rare earths could actually accelerate demand growth. Since REEs are used for many new technologies, the pace of technology innovation could also continue to boost REE demand. According to the IMCOA report, annual global demand growth for REEs from 2014 to 2020 could average 7.5% p.a. overall. Within this forecast, however, there is a significant variation in demand by end-use. For instance, demand for REE magnets using Nd, Pr, Dy, Sm and Tb is expected to average annual growth of 9.3% p.a., while demand for REE phosphors, which include Eu, is expected to experience no growth. Other REE uses that are expected by IMCOA to have the strongest demand growth from 2013 to 2020 are glass (9.8% p.a.), ceramics (6.5% p.a.) and metal alloys (6.0% p.a.). Trends affecting prices of REE products The prices of REEs are quoted in different forms, including oxides, metals, ferroalloys, and cerium carbonate concentrate (with approximately 45% TREOs). The marketability of REE concentrates will depend on the concentrate grade, the distribution of REEs in the concentrate and the types of impurities contained in the concentrate. Mixed REE concentrates are often then separated into individual REOs or groups of similar REOs that can be sold or can be tolled for further refinement. According to www.metal-pages.com (“Metal Pages”), weighted average quarterly prices in U.S. dollars of REOs of 99% purity, FOB China increased more than 1,100% from the end of 2009 through the third quarter of 2011. Since peaking in the third quarter of 2011, REO prices have fallen dramatically, with average quarterly prices for the fourth quarter of 2014 at a level 85% lower than the quarterly average peak in 2011. La oxide and Ce oxide decreased from highs exceeding $150 per kilogram in mid-2011 to around $4.50 per kilogram for 99% oxides as of December 31, 2014. Average prices of La oxide and Ce oxide for the first two months of 2015 declined another 5.8% and 4.2%, respectively, from the average of the fourth quarter of 2014 due to relatively weak global economic activity and a continued reluctance of major REE customers in China to restock these materials prior to the Chinese New Year. Although REE prices, other than La, remain above their 2009 levels, recently announced financial results of certain major Chinese rare earth companies and China’s ongoing consolidation of its rare earths industry may suggest that prices may have impetus to move higher. Recent reports have indicated that domestic Chinese prices for Dy and Tb have increased 21.5% and 47.7%, respectively, since last November, largely due to progress in China’s campaign against illegal mining. Supply and demand factors for REE products that could positively impact REE prices include the following, among other factors: · the use of Nd, Pr, Tb and Dy in high-strength, NdFeB magnets that are critical to hybrid and electric vehicles and the increased construction of wind power generation facilities, particularly large off-shore installations; · the use of Sm in high-performance Sm-cobalt permanent magnets; · the use of La and Ce for NiMH batteries that are utilized in hybrid and electric vehicles; · the use of Eu, Tb, Y and Ce in the production of compact fluorescent and LED light bulbs; · the use of high-strength NdFeB magnets in the miniaturization of electronic products; · the use of La in FCCs by refineries processing lower quality crude oil that consumes greater quantities of the catalysts; · the increased use of REEs in the drive to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gases, or GHGs, by the United States and the European Union; · China consolidating its REE industry and closing small, inefficient and polluting REE producers; · the stockpiling of certain REE products, tightening control of export volumes through licensing and increases in production taxes by China; · the use of Ce in glass, ceramics, glass polishing, and advanced water filtration applications; · the continued research and commercialization of new applications for REE products; and · the rising costs in China due to stricter environmental controls and rising wages. 14 Supply and demand factors for REE products that could negatively impact REE prices the following, among other factors: · the potential for oversupply of certain REEs due to new production outside of China and/or increased exports by China; · the potential substitution of other materials for high-priced REEs; · economization by intermediate and end-users to reduce their usage of REEs in end-products; · the potential for increased recycling of high-priced REEs; · static or lower global growth, reducing demand for REEs; and · potential by-product production that may increase supply irrespective of the normal economics of REE production. The feasibility of the Bear Lodge REE Project and our ability to raise additional funds to develop the project may be impacted by global supply and demand and future prices of REEs. SEASONALITY Seasonality in the state of Wyoming is not a material factor to our current exploration activities and planned development and operating activities on the Bear Lodge Property. Snowfall in the winter may limit our access to the Bear Lodge Property and our ability to drill or operate from approximately November through June, but it is not a material issue at this time. COMPETITION The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. We compete with other mining and exploration companies in connection with the acquisition, exploration and development of mineral properties. There is competition for the limited number of opportunities, some involving companies having substantially greater financial resources, staff and facilities than we do. We also compete with other mining and exploration companies in our efforts to hire and retain experienced mining professionals. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting or retaining key personnel or securing outside technical resources. In 2014, China accounted for an estimated 85% of global REE production and 68% of worldwide demand. While REE projects exist outside of China, current non-Chinese production is relatively limited. Further, even though two large mines outside of China are in the process of ramping up production, it is likely that the Chinese will be able to dominate the market for REEs for the foreseeable future. This gives the Chinese a competitive advantage in controlling the supply of REEs and engaging in competitive price reductions to discourage competition. Any increase in the amount of REEs exported from other nations increases competition and may result in price reductions, reduced margins and loss of potential market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our projected profitability. As a result of these factors, the Company may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES We rely on a combination of trade secret protection, nondisclosure and licensing agreements, and patents and trademarks to establish and protect our proprietary intellectual property rights. We utilize trade secret protection and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rare earth technology. As of December 31, 2014, we had filed five U.S. provisional patent applications relating to (1) selective recovery of REEs from mixed chloride leach solutions using oxalic acid, (2) thorium extraction process technology and (3) separation of cerium from bulk REEs in a single-contact solvent extraction (SX) process. On January 18, 2014, we combined two provisional patent applications into a single utility patent application filing with the U.S. Patent Office and initiated a Patent Cooperation Treaty Application claiming priority to the U.S. Provisional Applications. If allowed, a patent granted from the utility patent application would have a term of twenty years measured from the filing date of the utility patent application. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. 15 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION Our exploration and planned development and mining activities are subject to extensive and costly environmental laws and regulations under various federal, state, county and local laws relating to the protection of the environment, which generally includes air and water quality, hazardous waste management, radionuclide handling and reclamation. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in civil and/or criminal liability for non-compliance, fines and penalties, clean-up costs and other environmental damages. It also is possible that unanticipated developments or changes in the law could require us to make environmental expenditures significantly greater than those we currently expect. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. Current and future laws, regulations and permits will impose significant costs, liabilities or obligations or could limit or prevent our ability to continue operations or undertake new operations. Environmental hazards may exist on the properties in which we hold interests that are unknown to us at present and that have been caused by previous owners of the properties. Our Bear Lodge Property in Wyoming is subject to federal and state environmental laws, regulations, and permits. The federal agency responsible for regulatory jurisdiction is the United States Forest Service, Bearlodge Ranger District, Sundance, Wyoming. The state agency with regulatory jurisdiction is the Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality. We operate under approvals and permits granted by these two agencies and have established a surety bond to ensure environmental reclamation of areas disturbed. As of December 31, 2014, the Company had a surety bond with the state of Wyoming totaling $421,300. Prior to operating, we will require several other permits and licenses including those issued by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and others. In 2009, the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) announced that it will develop financial assurance requirements under CERCLA § 108(b) for the hardrock mining industry. EPA expects to publish its proposed financial responsibility regulations in 2016. EPA’s notice did not indicate what the anticipated scope of these requirements will be, or whether they will be duplicative of existing bonding and other financial assurance requirements applicable to the hardrock mining industry. However, the promulgation of regulations that require significant additional financial assurance could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. MINERALS EXPLORATION REGULATION Mining operations and exploration and development activities are subject to various national, state, county and local laws and regulations in the United States, which govern prospecting, development, mining, production, exports, taxes, labor standards, occupational health, waste disposal, protection of the environment, mine safety, hazardous substances and other matters. The Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable mining, health, safety and environmental statutes and the regulations passed thereunder in the United States. There are no current orders or notices of violations relating to the Company with respect to the foregoing laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations may impose substantial costs on the Company and could subject it to significant potential liabilities. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to expend significant resources to comply with new laws or regulations, or changes to current requirements, and could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS Pursuant to Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), issuers that are operators, or that have a subsidiary that is an operator, of a coal or other mine in the United States are required to disclose in their periodic reports filed with the SEC information regarding specified health and safety violations, orders and citations, related assessments and legal actions, and mining-related fatalities. During the year ended December 31, 2014, our Bear Lodge Property was not subject to regulation by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Administration under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977. 16 EMPLOYEES At December 31, 2014, we had 21 full-time employees of which 12 were directly engaged in development activities. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available, free of charge, on or through our Internet website, at www.rareelementresources.com, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our Transition Report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Our Internet website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be, and are not, incorporated into this Annual Report. Our filings can also be viewed at our corporate offices, located at 225 Union Blvd., Suite 250, Lakewood, Colorado 80228. Our reports, registration statements and other information can be inspected on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov and such information can also be inspected, and copies ordered, at the public reference facilities maintained by the SEC at the following location: 100 F Street NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information regarding the operation of the SEC’s public reference facilities may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company also files reports under Canadian regulatory requirements on the System for Electronic Document Analysis and Retrieval (“SEDAR”). You may access our reports filed on SEDAR by accessing its website at www.sedar.com. 17 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following sets forth certain risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations and the trading price of our common shares, which may decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not presently know or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks. We have a history of losses and will require additional financing to fund our current activities and, if warranted, future development and production efforts. Failure to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation and could cast uncertainty on our ability to continue as a going concern. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our net loss was $14.0 million. Our accumulated deficit at December 31, 2014 was $113.5 million. At December 31, 2014, our cash position was $10.1 million, and our working capital position was $9.2 million. We have no revenues from operations, and we anticipate we will have no operating revenues until we place the Bear Lodge REE Project into production. We do not have sufficient funds to complete feasibility studies, permitting, development and construction of the Bear Lodge REE Project. We will be required to raise additional funding through equity sales, asset sales in the form of joint venture relationships, debt instruments and/or alternative means of funding. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of feasibility studies, process test work, development and/or production at our Bear Lodge REE Project. We cannot be certain that additional capital or other types of financing will be available if needed or that, if available, the terms of such financing will be favorable or acceptable to us. Future financings may cause dilution to our shareholders. Our ability to arrange additional financing will depend, in part, on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance and the economic attractiveness of our Bear Lodge REE Project. We have no history of producing mineral products from our properties. Any future revenues and profits are uncertain. We have no history of mining or refining any mineral products, and our Bear Lodge REE Project is not currently producing. There can be no assurance that the Bear Lodge REE Project, or any properties that we may acquire in the future, will be successfully developed, placed into production, produce minerals in commercial quantities or otherwise generate operating earnings. Advancing properties from the exploration stage into development and commercial production requires significant capital and time and will be subject to further feasibility studies, permitting requirements and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads and related works and infrastructure. We will continue to incur losses until our mining activities successfully reach commercial production levels and generate sufficient revenue to fund continuing operations. There is no certainty that we will produce revenue from any source, operate profitably or provide a return on investment in the future. If we are unable to generate revenues or profits, our shareholders might not be able to realize returns on their investment in our common shares. The planned development of our Bear Lodge REE Project involves numerous uncertainties that could affect the feasibility or profitability of such project. Mine development projects typically require a number of years and significant expenditures during the exploration and development phases before production is possible. The economic feasibility of exploration and development projects is based on many factors such as: · completion of feasibility studies to further verify Mineral Resources and establish Mineral Reserves and commercial viability; · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of further exploration, preparing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of infrastructure, mining, beneficiation and processing facilities; · securing a commercially viable sales outlet for our REE products; · the potential need to enter into joint venture or other partnership arrangements to develop the project; · the availability and costs of equipment and skilled labor, as required; 18 · the availability and cost of appropriate processing and/or refining arrangements, if required; · compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; · the availability of funds to finance exploration, development and construction activities, as warranted; · future prices for rare earth minerals; · potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups or local groups or inhabitants that may delay or prevent development activities; · potential increases in exploration, construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials or supplies; · potential shortages of mineral processing, construction or other facilities-related equipment or supplies; and · the ability to attract and retain talent for development and operation of the Bear Lodge REE Project. It is common in exploration programs and in development, construction and mine start-up to experience unexpected problems and delays. Accordingly, our activities may not result in profitable mining operations, and we may not succeed in establishing mining operations or profitably producing REE products at our Bear Lodge REE Project at all or in the anticipated timeframe. Joint ventures and other partnerships may expose us to risks. Historically, we have entered into joint venture arrangements to help fund the exploration and potential development of our properties. In the future, we may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements, or engage in strategic acquisitions, with other parties in relation to the development of our properties. Such arrangements may dilute our interest in our properties or affect our ability to control development of our projects. Further, any failure of such joint venture or other partners to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties' respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint venture and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business performance and on our ability to develop our properties. We expect to commence a FS on our Bear Lodge REE Project, and the results of this FS are uncertain. We completed a PFS for our Bear Lodge REE Project in October 2014 that updated our Mineral Resource estimate and refined our process technology at that time. We expect to commence work on the FS in 2015. The results of this study are uncertain and may indicate project economics that are more or less favorable than previously reported. As our project optimization efforts continue, we cannot ensure that the FS will be based upon all of the same inputs used in the PFS. As a result, we may need to update our processing technology and/or project development plans to enhance economics or further study aspects of the Bear Lodge REE Project. This could result in significant additional delays and expense or could make financing efforts with respect to such efforts more difficult or not possible. Our growth depends on the permitting, development and operation of our Bear Lodge REE Project, which is our only rare earth project. Our only rare earth exploration project at this time is our Bear Lodge REE Project. Our continued viability is based on successfully implementing our strategy, including completion of a FS, permitting and construction of a mine and processing facilities in an expected timeframe. If we are unable to implement our strategy or in the event of the imposition of significant additional regulatory burdens or delays or a significant deterioration of the market for rare earth products, our ability to develop a sustainable or profitable business would be materially adversely affected. Increased costs could affect our ability to bring the Bear Lodge REE Project into production and, once in production, to be profitable. We have estimated the initial capital costs required to bring the Bear Lodge REE Project into commercial production in our PFS, dated October 9, 2014, at approximately $290 million. Our FS may suggest that our actual costs may be higher than we presently anticipate, which could make it more difficult to finance the project or to successfully establish mining operations at the Bear Lodge REE Project. 19 We anticipate that our future operating costs at the Bear Lodge REE Project will vary from year to year due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as oil, gas, reagents/chemicals, steel, rubber and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production less profitable or not profitable at all. A material increase in costs could also impact our ability to commence or maintain future development or mining operations. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for, and prices of, rare earth products. Because our primary focus currently is the advancement and development of the Bear Lodge REE Project, changes in demand for, and the market price of, REE products could significantly affect our ability to develop or finance the Bear Lodge REE Project and eventually attain commercial production or profitability. REE product prices may fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control such as interest rates, exchange rates, inflation or deflation, fluctuation in the relative value of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies on the world market, global and regional supply and demand for REE products, and the political and economic conditions of countries that produce and use REEs. As a result of the global economic crisis, REE prices declined by approximately 50% between 2008 and the end of the third quarter of 2009. REE prices then increased significantly during 2010 and most of 2011 only to again experience declines from 2012 through 2014. Protracted periods of low prices for REE products could significantly reduce our ability to develop the Bear Lodge REE Project and, if we attain commercial production, to maintain profitable operations. Demand for REE products is impacted by demand for downstream products incorporating rare earths, including hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power equipment and other clean technology products, as well as demand in the general automotive and electronics industries. Lack of growth in these markets could adversely affect the demand for REE products, which would have a material adverse effect on our Bear Lodge REE Project and our business. In contrast, periods of high REE prices are generally beneficial to us; however, strong REE prices, as well as real or perceived disruptions in the supply of REE, also create economic pressure to identify or create non-REE alternate technologies that ultimately could reduce future long-term demand for REE products, and at the same time may incentivize development of otherwise marginal mining properties. For example, automobile manufacturers have previously announced plans to develop motors for electric and hybrid cars that do not require REE products due to concerns about the available supply of rare earths. If the automobile industry or other industries reduce their reliance on rare earth products, the resulting change in demand could have a material adverse effect on our business. In particular, if prices or demand for rare earths were to decline, our share price would likely decline, and this could also impair our ability to obtain capital needed for our Bear Lodge REE Project and our ability to find purchasers for our products at prices acceptable to us or at all. An increase in the global supply of rare earth products, dumping and/or predatory pricing by our competitors may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital, develop our Bear Lodge REE Project or operate profitably. The pricing and demand for REE products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including growth of economic development and the global supply and demand for REE products. REE supply markets continue to be dominated by production from China, which produced an estimated 85% of the global REE production in 2014. China also dominates the manufacture of metals, NdFeB magnets and other products from rare earths. The threat of increased competition may lead our competitors to engage in predatory pricing behavior or manipulation of the available supply of REEs. Advanced technology in recycling REEs may also impact supply and prices. Any increase in the amount of rare earth products exported from other nations and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of potential market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profitability. As a result of these factors, we may not be able to compete effectively against our future competitors. 20 The success of our business may depend, in part, on the establishment of new uses and markets for rare earth products. The success of our business may depend, in part, on the establishment of new markets by us or third parties for certain rare earth products. Although we plan to produce rare earth products for use in end products such as NdFeB magnets, which are used in critical existing and emerging technologies such as hybrid and electric vehicles, wind power turbines and compact fluorescent lighting, the success of our business may depend on the creation of new markets and the successful commercialization of REE products in existing and emerging markets. Any unexpected costs or delays in the commercialization of any of the foregoing products or applications could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop our Bear Lodge REE Project or operate our business profitably. We rely on our proprietary technology and processes to further our Bear Lodge REE Project. We rely on a combination of trade secret protection, nondisclosure and licensing agreements and patents to establish and protect our proprietary intellectual property rights. We utilize trade secret protection, patent-pending filings, and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary rare earth technology. We have filed five U.S. provisional patent applications, two of which were combined into a single utility patent application filing with the U.S. Patent Office. We initiated a Patent Cooperation Treaty Application claiming priority to the U.S. Provisional Applications on our utility patent filing. These intellectual property rights may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new license agreements with third-party owners of intellectual property on reasonable terms. In addition, our intellectual property could be subject to infringement or other unauthorized use outside of the United States. In such case, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights by legal recourse or otherwise may be limited, particularly in countries where laws or enforcement practices are undeveloped or do not recognize or protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the United States. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights or inability to preserve existing intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position or results of operations. The loss of our patents could reduce the value of the related products. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to utilize our proprietary process technologies, and we could encounter unforeseen problems or costs, or both, in scaling up our technologies to commercial applications. Our Mineral Resource estimates may be inaccurate and any material change in these estimates could affect the economic viability of placing our Bear Lodge REE Project into production. Unless otherwise indicated, our Mineral Resources are based upon estimates made by independent geologists. When making determinations about whether to advance the Bear Lodge REE Project to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the quantity and grades of mineralization on the property as well as estimates about mining and processing costs and future prices. Until mineralized material is actually mined and processed, Mineral Resources and grades of such mineralization must be considered estimates only, which may prove to be unreliable. Because we have not completed a FS on the Bear Lodge REE Project and have not commenced actual production, mineralization estimates, including Mineral Resource estimates, for the Bear Lodge REE Project may require adjustments, including potential downward revisions. In addition, the grade of material ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated in our Mineral Resource estimates or in future feasibility studies. Our Mineral Resource estimates have been determined based on assumed cut-off grades that depend upon estimated REE prices, recovery rates and project operating costs. Any significant change in cut-off grades could reduce our estimates of mineralization, or the amount of mineralization to be extracted, and could have a material adverse effect on our share price and the value of our Bear Lodge REE Project. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, including permitting, licensing and approval processes that affect our operations and could impact the cost and timing of conducting our business. Our current and future activities will be governed by laws and regulations, including: · laws and regulations governing mineral concession acquisition, prospecting, development, mining and production; 21 · laws and regulations related to exports, taxes and fees; · labor standards and regulations related to occupational health and mine safety; · laws and regulations relating to environmental protection concerning waste management, transportation, and disposal of toxic and radioactive substances, land use and the protection of threatened and endangered species; and · other matters. We believe we hold, or are in the process of obtaining, all licenses and permits necessary to carry on the activities that we are currently conducting or propose to conduct in the near term under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain the current or planned exploration, development and mining activities including constructing mines and/or beneficiation and processing facilities, and commencing operations at the Bear Lodge REE Project. In addition, if we proceed to production on the Bear Lodge REE Project or any other properties that we may acquire in the future, we must obtain and comply with permits and licenses that may contain specific operating or other conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that we will be able to comply with any such conditions. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses may be prohibitive and could delay planned exploration and development activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may be subject to civil or criminal liability, fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations, cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs, or require abandonment or delays in development of the Bear Lodge REE Project. Our activities are subject to environmental risks and compliance with environmental regulations that are increasing and costly. Our business and activities are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental legislation at the local, state and federal level is evolving in a manner that will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste and hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations at the local, state and federal level and future changes in these laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays and may cause material changes or delays in our current and planned operations and future activities. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our Bear Lodge REE Project or some portion of our business, causing us to reevaluate those activities at that time. Examples of some of the current U.S. federal laws that may affect our business and planned operations include, but are not limited to, the following: · NEPA requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare an EIS. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will, and other federal agencies and any interested third parties can, review and comment on the scope of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. As required, we have begun to undertake the NEPA process for the Bear Lodge REE Project. The NEPA process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate potential environmental impacts , which in turn can impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project, including the ability to construct or operate the Bear Lodge REE Project or other properties entirely. 22 · The NRC, pursuant to its authority under the Atomic Energy Act, oversees the regulatory framework governing the control of radioactive materials, including mining, beneficiation and processing of rare earth elements that contain uranium and thorium. The NRC is responsible for issuing licenses for source material involving concentrations of uranium or thorium that exceed 0.05% by weight. If a proposed action, including waste generation, results in materials with concentrations of uranium and thorium that equal or exceed 0.05% by weight, a license to receive title to, possess, use, transfer, or deliver source and byproduct materials may be required. We are required to follow the regulations pertaining to a license application for the Bear Lodge REE Project. The licensing process, including NEPA review relating to the NRC licensing, may cause delays or result in changes to the project design to mitigate impacts as required under the licensing issuance. · Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, as amended, also known as CERCLA or the Superfund law, and similar state laws, responsibility for the entire cost of cleanup of a contaminated site, as well as natural resource damages, can be imposed upon current or former site owners or operators, or upon any party who released one or more designated “hazardous substances” at the site, regardless of the lawfulness of the original activities that led to the contamination. CERCLA also authorizes EPA and, in some cases, third parties to take actions in response to threats to public health or the environment and to seek to recover from the potentially responsible parties the costs of such action. We may also be an owner or operator of facilities at which hazardous substances have been released by previous owners or operators. We may be responsible under CERCLA for all or part of the costs of cleaning up facilities at which such substances have been released and for natural resource damages. We have not, to our knowledge, been identified as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA, nor are we aware of any prior owners or operators of our properties that have been so identified with respect to their ownership or operation of those properties. · The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of “solid” and “hazardous” waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. Although certain mining, beneficiation, and mineral processing wastes currently are exempt from regulation as hazardous wastes under RCRA, EPA has limited the disposal options for certain wastes designated as hazardous wastes under RCRA. It is possible that certain wastes generated by our potential future operations that currently are exempt from regulation as hazardous wastes may in the future be designated as hazardous wastes, and may therefore become subject to more rigorous and costly management, disposal and clean-up requirements. · The Clean Air Act, as amended (“CAA”), and comparable state statutes, restricts the emission of air pollutants from many stationary and mobile sources, including mining and processing activities. Our planned mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities, and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment that are subject to review, monitoring, control requirements and emission limits under the CAA and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules and issued permits may impose limitations on production levels or result in additional capital expenditures to comply. In certain circumstances, private citizens may also sue sources for alleged violations of the CAA. · The Clean Water Act (“CWA”) and comparable state statutes impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. These controls generally have become more stringent over time, and it is possible that additional restrictions will be imposed in the future. Violation of the CWA and similar state regulatory programs can result in civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of hazardous substances and other pollutants. They also can impose substantial liability for the costs of removal or remediation associated with such discharges. The CWA also regulates stormwater handling at mining facilities, requires a stormwater discharge permit for certain activities, and requires the implementation of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan establishing best management practices, training, periodic monitoring of covered activities, and monitoring and sampling of stormwater run-off. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 23 · The Safe Drinking Water Act (“SDWA”) and the Underground Injection Control (“UIC”) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and/or remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SDWA and state laws. · The Endangered Species Act (“ESA”) regulates activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened and endangered species, including the habitat and ecosystems upon which they depend. The ESA protects threatened and endangered species primarily by prohibiting the unauthorized “taking” of listed species. The ESA also requires consultation with other agencies in certain circumstances. Compliance with ESA requirements can significantly delay, limit, or even prevent the development of projects, including the development of mining claims, and can also result in increased development costs. In addition, civil and criminal penalties for violations of the ESA are provided, and citizen suits against any person alleged to be in violation of the ESA are authorized. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs that could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impact of climate change and various climate change interest groups. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us and/or our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and/or other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such regulations. Given the political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance or ability to compete. Even without such regulation, increased awareness or any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the mining or rare earth industries’ potential impacts on climate change could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in precipitation, storm patterns and intensities, water shortages and changing temperatures. These factors may have an adverse impact on the cost, production or financial performance of our operations. We depend on key personnel, and the absence of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business. Our success is currently largely dependent on the performance, retention and abilities of our directors, officers and employees. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. There is no assurance that we can maintain the services of our directors, officers, employees or other qualified personnel required to operate our business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on us and our prospects. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to meet the needs of our anticipated growth, and the failure to manage our growth effectively could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Competition for additional qualified management is intense, and we may be unable to attract and retain additional key personnel, or to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms. Management personnel are currently limited, and they may be unable to manage our expansion successfully. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under such circumstances, such persons may provide confidential information and key contacts to competitors, and we may have difficulties in preventing the disclosure of such information. Such disclosure may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations. 24 A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We depend on various supplies and equipment to carry out our exploration and, if warranted, future development and mining operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment or parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our planned activities or increase our operating costs and expenses. Mineral exploration and development and mining are potentially hazardous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or plans. Mineral exploration and development and mining involve various types of risks and hazards, including: · environmental hazards; · power outages; · metallurgical and other processing problems; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · personal injury, flooding, fire, explosions, cave-ins, earthquakes, landslides and rock-bursts; · mineral exploration or mining accidents; · concentrate losses; · fluctuations in exploration, development and production costs; · labor disputes; · unanticipated variations in grade; · mechanical equipment failure; · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions; and · regulatory curtailments or shutdowns. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production equipment, facilities or other properties, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses or possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, may be prohibitively expensive or not available. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business, if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by insurance policies. Mineral exploration and development is highly speculative, and certain inherent risks could have a negative effect on our business. Our long-term success depends on our ability to develop mineral deposits on existing properties and other properties we may acquire, if any, that can then be developed into commercially viable mining operations. Resource exploration is a highly speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Substantial expenditures are required to establish Proven and Probable Mineral Reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, and to develop the mining, beneficiation and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by us may be affected by numerous factors that are beyond our control and cannot be accurately predicted, such as market pricing fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets demand, available supply and processing equipment, and other factors such as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. Any one or a combination of these factors may result in a failure to receive an adequate return on our investment capital. The decision to abandon a project may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares or our ability to complete future financings. 25 Title to our Bear Lodge Property may be subject to other claims, or we may lose our interest in our claims, which could affect our property rights and claims. There are risks that title to our Bear Lodge Property may be challenged or impugned. Our Bear Lodge Property is located in the state of Wyoming and may be subject to prior unrecorded agreements, transfers or native land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of our Bear Lodge Property which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. The vast majority of the mineral rights to our Bear Lodge Property consist of “unpatented” mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims can be uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations an owner of an unpatented mining claim must comply with to locate and maintain a valid claim. Also, unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges by third parties or validity contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with not only a complex body of U.S. federal and state statutory law, but also administrative and judicial decisions interpreting those statutes and case law. In addition, there may be limitations as to the completeness of public records that determine prior claimants that could impact the validity or ownership of unpatented mining claims. Our operations are subject to significant uninsured risks that could negatively impact future profitability as we maintain limited insurance against our operations. The exploration of our Bear Lodge Property entails certain risks including unexpected or unusual operating conditions, such as rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against these risks. Should events such as these arise, they could reduce or eliminate our assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and/or a decline in the value of our assets or common shares. We expect to maintain general liability, director and officer insurance, and some insurance against our assets but not with expectation of full replacement value. We may decide to update or amend our insurance portfolio in the future, if coverage is available at economically viable rates. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding and/or acquire suitable properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. The mining industry is intensely competitive. Significant competition exists for the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing REE, gold or other metals. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because we must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than we have. We may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in our efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for exploration resources at all levels can be very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs, mining equipment and production equipment. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding, acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future or attract or retain key personnel or outside technical resources. Land reclamation requirements for our properties may be burdensome or too expensive. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies as well as companies with mining operations to minimize long-term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: · control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; · treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and · reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance vegetation and land forms. 26 To carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with the potential future development activities at the Bear Lodge Property, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and future development programs. We have set up a provision for reclamation obligations as currently anticipated for exploration completed on the Bear Lodge Property, as appropriate, but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. Legislation and regulations have been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry and our business. The U.S. Congress from time to time has considered proposed revisions to the General Mining Law of 1872, including legislation introduced in 2014. If these proposed revisions are enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims or could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to (i) impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims, (ii) impose a fee on the amount of material displaced at a mine, (iii) impose time limits on the effectiveness of plans of operation that may not coincide with mine life, (iv) impose more stringent environmental compliance and reclamation requirements on activities on unpatented mining claims, (v) establish a mechanism that would allow states, localities and Native American tribes to petition for the withdrawal of identified tracts of federal land from the operation of the U.S. general mining laws, and (vi) allow for administrative determinations that mining would not be allowed in situations where undue degradation of the federal lands in question could not be prevented. Although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of a federal royalty or other provisions contained in these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of our unpatented mining claims, and could adversely affect our ability to operate or our financial performance. The effect of any revision of the General Mining Law on operations cannot be determined until enactment. However, it is possible that revisions would materially increase the carrying and operating costs of mineral properties located on federal unpatented mining claims. In 2009, the EPA announced that it will develop financial assurance requirements under CERCLA § 108(b) for the hardrock mining industry. EPA expects to publish its proposed financial responsibility regulations in 2016. EPA’s notice did not indicate what the anticipated scope of these requirements will be, or whether they will be duplicative of existing bonding and other financial assurance requirements applicable to the hardrock mining industry. However, the promulgation of regulations that require significant additional financial assurance could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a negative impact on our financial position or results. Certain assets are subject to foreign currency fluctuations that may adversely affect our financial position or results. We maintain some accounts in Canadian dollars, and thus, any appreciation in the U.S. dollar against the Canadian dollar increases the costs of carrying out our operations in the United States. Management may or may not enter into foreign currency contracts from time-to-time to mitigate this risk. Failing to enter into currency contracts, or the risk in the currency contracts themselves, may cause losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. Our directors and senior management may be engaged in other businesses. Potential conflicts of interest or other obligations of management could interfere with corporate operations. Some of our directors, officers and key contractors may be engaged in additional businesses, or situations may arise where our directors, officers and contractors could be in direct competition with us. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of applicable policies, regulations and legislation. Some of our directors and officers are or may become directors or officers of other entities engaged in other business ventures. As a result of their other business endeavors, our directors, officers and contractors may not be able to devote sufficient time to our business affairs, which may negatively affect our ability to conduct ongoing operations or to generate revenues. 27 We are subject to the risk of litigation, the causes and costs of which are not always known. The Company is subject to litigation arising in the normal course of business and may be involved in disputes that may result in litigation. Although we are not aware of any material pending or threatened litigation or of any proceedings known to be contemplated which are, or would be, likely to have a material adverse effect upon us or our operations, taken as a whole, the causes of potential future litigation cannot be known and may arise from, among other things, business activities, environmental and health and safety concerns, share price volatility or failure to comply with disclosure obligations. The results of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty but could include costly damage awards or settlements, fines, and the loss of licenses, concessions or rights, among other things. If the Company is unable to resolve a dispute favorably, either by judicial determination or settlement, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. We depend upon information technology systems, which are subject to disruption, damage, or failure and have risks associated with implementation and integration. We depend upon information technology systems in the conduct of our operations. Our information technology systems are subject to disruption, damage or failure from a variety of sources, including, without limitation, computer viruses, security breaches, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and defects in design. Cybersecurity incidents, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information or the corruption of data. Various measures have been implemented to manage our risks related to the information technology systems and network disruptions. However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of information technology disruptions, we could potentially be subject to downtimes, operational delays, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We are incorporated in the province of British Columbia, Canada under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia). Some of our directors are residents of Canada, and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of our common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends. We have not declared any dividends since our incorporation and do not anticipate that we will do so in the foreseeable future. Our present policy is to retain all available funds for use in our business development, operations and expansion. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that the Board of Directors considers relevant. In the absence of dividends, investors will only see a return on their investment if the value of our common shares appreciates. Dilution through outstanding common share options and warrants could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees and consultants, we have granted to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other shareholders may be diluted. We also issued warrants to purchase up to 1,338,688 common shares in September 2013. As of December 31, 2014, there were 4,345,500 common share purchase options outstanding, which, if exercised, would result in an additional 4,345,500 common shares being issued and outstanding which is approximately 9% of our common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2014. 28 Future sales of our securities in the public or private markets could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares or our ability to continue to raise funds in new equity offerings. It is likely that we will sell common shares, or securities exercisable or convertible into common shares, in order to finance our planned development activities. Future sales of substantial amounts of our securities in the public or private markets would dilute our existing shareholders and potentially adversely affect the trading prices of our common shares or could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of securities. Alternatively, we may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require us to make substantial interest and principal payments that could adversely affect our business or future growth potential. Price volatility of our publicly traded securities could adversely affect investors’ portfolios. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced high levels of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in the market price of our common shares will not occur. It may be anticipated that any quoted market for the common shares will be subject to market trends and conditions generally, notwithstanding any potential success we have in creating revenues, cash flows or earnings. The price of our common shares has been subject to price and volume volatility in the past and will likely continue to be subject to such volatility in the future. Failure to meet the maintenance criteria of the NYSE MKT may result in the delisting of our common shares, which could result in lower trading volumes and liquidity, lower prices of our common shares and make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Our common shares are listed on the NYSE MKT, and we are subject to its continued listing requirements. If we are unable to comply with the NYSE MKT continued listing requirements, including its trading price requirements, our common shares may be suspended from trading on and/or delisted from the NYSE MKT. Alternatively, in order to avoid delisting by the NYSE MKT, we may be required to effect a reverse split of our common shares. Although we have not been notified of any delisting proceedings, there is no assurance that we will not receive such notice in the future or that we will be able to then comply with NYSE MKT listing standards. The delisting of our common shares from the NYSE MKT may materially impair our shareholders’ ability to buy and sell our common shares and could have an adverse effect on the market price of, and the efficiency of the trading market for, our common shares. In addition, the delisting of our common shares could significantly impair our ability to raise capital. If our common shares were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common shares and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common shares in the secondary market. If our common shares were removed from listing on the NYSE MKT, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common shares were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common shares and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common shares on the secondary market. These factors could significantly negatively affect the market price of our common shares and our ability to raise capital. 29 We likely were a “passive foreign investment company” (“PFIC”) for the year ended December 31, 2014, and may be a PFIC in subsequent years, which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. Investors in our common shares that are U.S. taxpayers (referred to as a U.S. shareholder) should be aware that we believe that we were likely a “passive foreign investment company” (a “PFIC”) for the period ended December 31, 2014, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, we expect that we will be a PFIC for the year ending December 31, 2015, and may be a PFIC in subsequent years. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide information as to our status as a PFIC and the PFIC status of any subsidiary in which the Company owns more than 50% of such subsidiary’s total aggregate voting power to U.S. shareholders who make a written request for such information. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be subject to a special, highly adverse tax regime with respect to so-called “excess distributions” received on our common shares. Gain realized upon a disposition of our common shares (including upon certain dispositions that would otherwise be tax-free) also will be treated as excess distributions. The portion of any excess distribution, including gains treated as excess distributions, would be allocated ratably to the U.S. shareholder's holding period. The portion allocated to the current year and to prior years before we first became a PFIC would be treated as ordinary income in the current year. The portion allocated to all other prior years would be taxed at the highest marginal rate applicable to ordinary income for each such year (regardless of the U.S. shareholder’s actual marginal rate for that year and without reduction by any losses or loss carryforwards) and would be subject to interest charges to reflect the value of the U.S. income tax deferral. A U.S. shareholder may make a “qualified electing fund” election (“QEF election”) or a “mark-to-market” election with respect to our common shares to mitigate the adverse tax rules that apply to PFICs, but these elections may accelerate the recognition of taxable income and may result in the recognition of ordinary income. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its pro rata share of our net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which we are a PFIC, whether or not we distribute any amounts to our shareholders. A U.S. shareholder may make a QEF election only if the U.S. shareholder receives certain information (known as a “PFIC annual information statement”) from us annually. We will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to a U.S. shareholder, upon written request, an accurate PFIC annual information statement for each year in which the Company is a PFIC. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of our common shares over the U.S. shareholder’s basis therein. Additional special adverse rules also apply to U.S. shareholders who own our common shares if we are a PFIC and have a non-U.S. subsidiary that is itself a PFIC. Special adverse rules that impact certain estate planning goals could apply to our common shares if we are a PFIC. Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. federal alternative minimum, U.S. federal estate and gift, and U.S. state and local consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of our common shares if we are or become a PFIC. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 