Item 1A. Risk Factors. In evaluating our business, you should consider carefully the following risk factors in addition to the other information presented in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only risks that we face. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected and the market price of our securities may decline. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is difficult to evaluate due to our limited operating history and our prospects will be dependent on our ability to meet a number of challenges. We have had a limited operating history. Our business is difficult to evaluate due to a lack of operational history, and our prospects will be dependent on our ability to meet a number of challenges. Because we have a limited operating history, you may not be able to evaluate our future prospects accurately. Our prospects will be primarily dependent on our ability to obtain customer drilling contracts for our drilling units and other factors. In addition, our prospects will also be dependent on the success of our joint venture for the Platinum Explorer, a deepwater drillship, which is currently under construction, including the ability of us and our joint venture partner, F3 Capital, to successfully finance our respective portions of the construction cost. If we are not able to successfully meet these challenges, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. A small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues, and the loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a few customers. During the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, three customers accounted for approximately 46%, 23% and 12%, respectively of our revenue. Our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if any one of these customers interrupt or curtail their activities, fail to pay for the services that have been performed, terminate their contracts, fail to renew their existing contracts or refuse to award new contracts and we are unable to enter into contracts with new customers on comparable terms. The loss of any of our significant customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers, including certain affiliated companies, and certain other third parties, and nonpayment by these customers and other parties could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, including certain companies owned by or associated with our affiliates. As of December 31, 2009, affiliates of F3 Capital owed us approximately $7.5 million in connection with services rendered under construction supervision arrangements. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by these entities, other key customers and certain other third parties could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. If any key customers and other parties default on their obligations to us, our financial results and condition could be adversely affected. Furthermore, some of these customers and other parties may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. A material or extended decline in expenditures by oil and natural gas exploration and production companies due to a decline or volatility in oil and natural gas prices, a decrease in demand for oil and natural gas, or other factors, would adversely affect our business. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and natural gas exploration, development and production expenditures of our customers. Oil and natural gas prices and customers’ expectations of potential changes in 12 Table of Contents these prices significantly affect this level of activity. Commodity prices are affected by numerous factors, including the following: • changes in the global economic conditions, including the continuation of the current recession; • the demand for oil and natural gas; • the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; • expectations regarding future prices; • advances in exploration, development and production technology; • the ability of OPEC to set and maintain production levels and pricing; • the availability and discovery rate of new oil and natural gas reserves in offshore areas; • the rate of decline of existing and new oil and natural gas reserves; • the level of production in non-OPEC countries; • domestic and international tax policies; • the development and exploitation of alternative fuels; • weather; • the policies of various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; and • the worldwide military and political environment, uncertainty or instability resulting from an escalation or additional outbreak of armed hostilities or other crises in significant oil and natural gas producing regions or further acts of terrorism. Oil and natural gas prices were at historically high levels until experiencing a sharp decline during the second half of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. Although oil and natural gas prices have recovered somewhat from their twelve month lows, this decline in commodity prices has caused companies exploring for and producing oil and natural gas to cancel or curtail their drilling programs, or reduce their levels of capital expenditures for exploration and production for a variety of reasons, including their lack of success in exploration efforts. A prolonged continuation of the current low level of demand for our services, or any further reduction in the demand for drilling services, may materially erode dayrates and utilization rates for drilling units, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could have a significant negative impact on the market price of our securities. Construction projects are subject to risks, including delays and cost overruns, which could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and results of operations. As part of our growth strategy we may contract from time to time for the construction of drilling units or may enter into agreements to manage the construction of drilling units for others. Currently, we are overseeing and managing the construction of three ultra-deepwater drillships and two ultra-deepwater semisubmersibles. Our construction projects are subject to the risks of delay or cost overruns inherent in any large construction project, including costs or delays resulting from the following: • unexpected long delivery times for, or shortages of, key equipment, parts and materials; • shortages of skilled labor and other shipyard personnel necessary to perform the work; • unforeseen increases in the cost of equipment, labor and raw materials, particularly steel; • unforeseen design and engineering problems; • unanticipated actual or purported change orders; • work stoppages; 13 Table of Contents • latent damages or deterioration to hull, equipment and machinery in excess of engineering estimates and assumptions; • failure or delay of third-party service providers and labor disputes; • disputes with shipyards and suppliers; • delays and unexpected costs of incorporating parts and materials needed for the completion of projects; • financial or other difficulties at shipyards; • adverse weather conditions; and • inability to obtain required permits or approvals. Any delays could subject us to penalties for such failure. If we experience delays and costs overruns in the construction of these drilling units due to certain of the factors listed above, it could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our drilling contracts are generally short-term, and we will experience reduced profitability if customers reduce activity levels, terminate or seek to renegotiate drilling contracts, or if market conditions dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage or turnkey basis, rather than on a dayrate basis. Many drilling contracts are short-term, and oil and natural gas companies tend to reduce activity levels quickly in response to downward changes in oil and natural gas prices. Due to the short-term nature of most of our contracts, a decline in market conditions can quickly affect our business if customers reduce their levels of operations. During depressed market conditions, a customer may no longer need a unit that is currently under contract or may be able to obtain a comparable unit at a lower dayrate. As a result, customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing drilling contracts or avoid their obligations under those contracts. In addition, our customers may have the right to terminate, or may seek to renegotiate, existing contracts if we experience downtime, operational problems above the contractual limit or safety-related issues, if the drilling unit is a total loss, if the drilling unit is not delivered to the customer within the period specified in the contract or in other specified circumstances, which include events beyond the control of either party. Some of our current contracts, and some contracts that we may enter into in the future, may include terms allowing customers to terminate contracts without cause, with little or no prior notice and without penalty or early termination payments. In addition, we could be required to pay penalties, which could be material, if some of these contracts are terminated due to downtime, operational problems or failure to deliver. Some of the contracts with customers that we enter into in the future may be cancellable at the option of the customer upon payment of a penalty, which may not fully compensate us for the loss of the contract. Early termination of a contract may result in a drilling unit being idle for an extended period of time. The likelihood that a customer may seek to terminate a contract is increased during periods of market weakness. Currently, our drilling contracts are dayrate contracts, where we charge a fixed rate per day regardless of the number of days needed to drill the well. While we plan to continue to perform services on a dayrate basis, market conditions may dictate that we enter into contracts that provide for payment based on a footage basis, where we are paid a fixed amount for each foot drilled regardless of the time required or the problems encountered in drilling the well, or enter into turnkey contracts, whereby we agree to drill a well to a specific depth for a fixed price and bear some of the well equipment costs. These types of contracts are more risky than a dayrate contract as we would be subject to downhole geologic conditions in the well that cannot always be accurately determined and subject us to greater risks associated with equipment and downhole tool failures. Unfavorable downhole geologic conditions and equipment and downhole tool failures may result in significant cost increases or may result in a decision to abandon a well project which would result in us not being able to invoice revenues for providing services. Any such termination or renegotiation of contracts and unfavorable costs increases or loss of revenue could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and result of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our business is affected by local, national and worldwide economic conditions and the condition of the oil and natural gas industry. Recent economic data indicates the rate of economic growth worldwide has declined significantly from the growth rates experienced in recent years. The consequences of the recent recession include a lower level of economic activity, uncertainty regarding energy and commodity prices and reduced demand for oil and natural gas. In addition, current economic conditions may cause many oil and natural gas production companies to further reduce or delay expenditures in order to reduce costs, which in turn may cause a further reduction in the demand for drilling services. If the recession is prolonged or worsens, our business and financial condition may be adversely impacted and could become more vulnerable to further adverse general economic and industry conditions. The current worldwide financial and credit crisis has led to an extended worldwide economic recession that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. The current worldwide financial and credit crisis has reduced the availability of liquidity and credit to fund the continuation and expansion of industrial business operations worldwide. The shortage of liquidity and credit combined with recent substantial losses in worldwide equity markets has led to an extended worldwide economic recession. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the financial markets may limit our access to capital. A slowdown in economic activity caused by the recession has reduced worldwide demand for energy and resulted in lower oil and natural gas prices. Benchmark crude prices peaked at over $140 per barrel in July 2008 and then declined dramatically to approximately $45 per barrel at year-end 2008. During 2009, the benchmark for crude prices fluctuated between the mid $30’s per barrel and low $80’s per barrel. Demand for our services depends on oil and natural gas industry activity and expenditure levels that are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. In addition, demand for our services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices could depress the near-term levels of exploration, development, and production activity. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies could similarly reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects. Lower levels of activity result in a corresponding decline in the demand for our services, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Additionally, these factors may adversely impact our financial position if they are determined to cause an impairment of our long-lived assets. Our industry is highly competitive, cyclical and subject to intense price competition. Due to our lack of operating history, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors. The offshore contract drilling industry is highly competitive, and contracts have traditionally been awarded on a competitive bid basis. The technical capabilities, availability and pricing of a drilling unit are often the primary factors in determining which qualified contractor is awarded a job. Other key factors include a contractor’s reputation for service, safety record, environmental record, technical and engineering support and long-term relationships with national and international oil and natural gas companies. Our competitors in the offshore contract drilling industry generally have larger, more diverse fleets, longer operating histories with established safety and environmental records over a measurable period of time, experienced in-house technical and engineering support departments and long-term relationships with customers. This provides our competitors with competitive advantages that may adversely affect our efforts to contract our drilling units on favorable terms, if at all, and correspondingly negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Additionally, we are at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors that are better capitalized because they are in a better position to weather the effects of a downturn in our industry. The offshore contract drilling industry, historically, has been very cyclical with periods of high demand, limited supply and high dayrates alternating with periods of low demand, excess supply and low dayrates. Many 15 Table of Contents offshore drilling units are highly mobile. Competitors may move drilling units from region to region in response to changes in demand. It is currently estimated that 36 newly constructed jackup rigs will be entered into service between now and December 2010. Periods of low demand and excess supply intensify competition in the industry and often result in some drilling units becoming idle for long periods of time. Our lack of operating history may put us at a competitive disadvantage and, as a result, our drilling units may become idle. Prolonged periods of low utilization and dayrates, or extended idle time, could result in the recognition of impairment charges on our drilling units if cash flow estimates, based upon information available to management at the time, indicate that the carrying value of the drilling units may not be recoverable. New technology and/or products may cause us to become less competitive. The offshore contract drilling industry is subject to the introduction of new drilling techniques and services using new technologies, some of which may be subject to patent protection. As competitors and others use or develop new technologies, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we may face competitive pressure to implement or acquire certain new technologies at a substantial cost. Most of our competitors have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that will allow them to enjoy technological advantages and implement new technologies before we can. We cannot be certain that we will be able to implement new technology or products on a timely basis or at an acceptable cost. Thus, our ability to effectively use and implement new and emerging technology may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Any ban of offshore drilling by any city, state, or nation, or by any governing body may have a material adverse effect on our business. Events in recent years have heightened environmental and regulatory concerns about the oil and natural gas industry. From time to time, governing bodies may propose legislation that would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in certain areas. To date, no proposals which would materially limit or prohibit offshore drilling in our areas of operation have been enacted into law. However, governing bodies may enact such laws in the future. If laws are enacted or other governmental action is taken that restrict or prohibit offshore drilling in our expected areas of operation, we could be materially and adversely affected. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling obligations under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2009, we and our subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, had approximately $394.1 million of long-term debt, which is secured by all of our jackup rigs and a substantial portion of our assets. Our high level of indebtedness, and the terms of the agreements that govern such indebtedness, may have important consequences on your investment and our business such as: • requiring us and our subsidiaries to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the debt, which would reduce the funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments, which may limit our ability to execute our business strategy; • heighten our vulnerability to downturns in business or in the general economy and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • result in higher interest expense if we have outstanding floating rate borrowings. 16 Table of Contents Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and viability. We may also be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we now face would intensify and could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. The agreements governing our debt and the debt of our subsidiaries impose significant operating and financial restrictions, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities and taking some actions. The agreements governing our debt and the debt of our subsidiaries contain numerous restrictions on our activities, including covenants that limit our ability to: • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue disqualified capital stock; • enter into drilling contracts without lender approval; • create or incur liens; • pay dividends, redeem subordinated indebtedness or make other restricted payments; • transfer or sell assets; • incur dividend or other payment restrictions affecting certain subsidiaries; • consummate a merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all our assets; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in businesses other than a business that is the same or similar to our current business and reasonably related businesses; and • take or omit to take any actions that would adversely affect or impair in any material respect the collateral securing the indebtedness. These restrictions may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. We may also incur future debt obligations that might subject us to additional restrictive covenants that could affect our financial and operational flexibility. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements, or that we will be able to refinance our debt on acceptable terms or at all. The breach of any of these covenants and restrictions could result in a default under the agreements governing our debt. An event of default under any of these agreements would permit some of the lenders to declare all amounts borrowed from them to be due and payable. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in the agreements governing our debt, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements, which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds. If we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our current and future agreements governing our debt, there could be a default under the terms of these agreements which could result in an acceleration of payment of funds that have been borrowed. Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control. If a default occurs under these agreements, the holders of the debt could accelerate the outstanding debt and declare all amounts borrowed due and payable. Debt under other debt instruments that contain cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions may also be accelerated and become due and payable. If any of these events occur, our assets might not be sufficient to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness and we may not be able to find alternative financing. Even if we could obtain alternative financing, such financing might not be on terms that are 17 Table of Contents favorable or acceptable. If we were unable to repay amounts borrowed, the holders of the debt could initiate a bankruptcy or liquidation proceeding. To service our indebtedness and other obligations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on, or refinance, our indebtedness and to fund working capital needs and planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. A significant reduction in the operating cash flows, including as a result of changes in general economic conditions, timing of contracts or payments, legislative or regulatory conditions, increased competition or other events beyond our control, could increase the need for additional or alternative sources of liquidity and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and our ability to service our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our indebtedness or to fund our liquidity needs, we may be forced to adopt an alternative strategy that may include actions such as reducing capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing indebtedness, seeking additional equity capital or any combination of the foregoing. We cannot assure you that any of these alternative strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that they would yield sufficient funds to make required payments on our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. Reducing or delaying capital expenditures or selling assets could delay future cash flows. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow or to achieve any of these alternatives could significantly adversely affect the value of our securities. In addition, if we default in the payment of amounts due on any current indebtedness, it would give rise to an event of default under our agreements governing our indebtedness, and could lead to the possible acceleration of amounts due under any of our outstanding indebtedness. In the event of any acceleration, there can be no assurance that we will have enough cash to repay our outstanding indebtedness. We have substantial obligations to fund contracts and other arrangements related to the construction of the Platinum Explorer. If we fail to meet these obligations or construction of the Platinum Explorer is not completed, such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations. We are not the majority owner of Mandarin, however we are responsible for securing financing for our portion of the construction costs of, and related capital expenditures for, the Platinum Explorer. We have funding obligations related to the construction of the Platinum Explorer of approximately $226.8 million due upon delivery of the drilling unit in the fourth quarter of 2010. This amount represents our pro rata portion of the final payments to the shipyard. In addition, we have funding obligations related to non-shipyard pre-delivery capital expenditures for the Platinum Explorer of approximately $54.0 million, which represents our pro rata portion of these costs. The final terms and availability of any financing for these obligations will be determined by, among other factors, financial market conditions in 2010, the creditworthiness of Mandarin, our creditworthiness, the creditworthiness of F3 Capital, our joint venture partner, and drilling industry conditions. Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement, F3 Capital is solely responsible for funding the remaining pre-delivery shipyard payments for the Platinum Explorer. The first two installment payments were made to DSME and DSME has agreed to defer the third and fourth installment payments under the construction contract to June 15, 2010. The deferral agreement provides for the payment of interest at the rate of 6% per annum on the deferred obligations and protection against fluctuations in exchange rates; F3 Capital is responsible for the additional interest and exchange rate fluctuations. There can be no assurance that F3 Capital will make the payment to DSME when due on behalf of Mandarin pursuant to the terms of the deferral. There can be no assurance that we or F3 Capital will be able to successfully obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, on behalf of the joint venture. If we are unable to obtain, arrange or complete the financing for our portion of the final construction payment for the drillship, we will be in breach of the shareholder agreement and could be liable for damages to F3 Capital. In addition, we could lose all or a portion of our investment in Mandarin, valued at $120.3 million as of 18 Table of Contents December 31, 2009. Even if we are able to meet our obligations under the shareholder agreement, F3 Capital may not perform, or the drillship could be delayed or otherwise not delivered by the shipyard. If Platinum Explorer is delayed, cancelled or not delivered as expected for any reason upon completion of construction, we will not be able to deliver it to the customer under the drilling contract entered into and for which we provide a performance guarantee. In such event, we will need to find a replacement unit that is acceptable to our customer. If we are unable to deliver an acceptable replacement, we will lose any anticipated income from the employment of this unit and may be required to pay substantial liquidated damages to our customer. Should we become liable under the performance guarantee, we could be held liable for the customer’s potential damages including, but not limited to, any increase in rates between our current drilling contract with the customer and any substitute drilling contract they may obtain. If we were to become liable to F3 Capital, lose all or a portion of our investment, including any anticipated revenue from the operation of this drillship, or become liable to our customer for liquidated damages, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if we make payments on behalf of F3 Capital in connection with the construction or other costs for the Platinum Explorer, our financial condition would be adversely affected and there is no guarantee that F3 Capital would reimburse us for payments we make on the their behalf. For more information, see “Transactions with F3 Capital—Platinum Explorer Transaction.” Failure to obtain deliveries of the drilling units may have a material and adverse effect on our business. We have construction supervision arrangements in place for the Platinum Explorer, DragonQuest, Cobalt Explorer, Semi I and Semi II , but we are not a party to the construction contracts for these drilling units and do not have control over any arrangements between the owner and the shipyard. Although we have secured drilling and management contracts for some of these drilling units, these units may not be completed, completed in a timely manner, delivered to us upon completion of construction or acceptable to our customers. If we are unable to deliver these units or find acceptable replacements, we may be required to pay damages to our customers, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects will be materially adversely affected. Our financial condition may be adversely affected if we are unable to identify and complete future acquisitions, fail to successfully integrate acquired assets or businesses we acquire, or are unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. The acquisition of assets or businesses that we believe to be complementary to our drilling operations is an important component of our business strategy. We believe that acquisition opportunities may arise from time to time, and that any such acquisition could be significant. At any given time, discussions with one or more potential sellers may be at different stages. However, any such discussions may not result in the consummation of an acquisition transaction, and we may not be able to identify or complete any acquisitions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that any announcement or consummation of an acquisition would have on the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our business is capital intensive and any such transactions could involve the payment by us of a substantial amount of cash. We may need to raise additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings to execute our growth strategy and to fund acquisitions. Adequate sources of capital may not be available when needed on favorable terms. If we raise additional capital by issuing additional equity securities, existing shareholders may be diluted. If our capital resources are insufficient at any time in the future, we may be unable to fund acquisitions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could harm our business. Any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: • the risk of using management time and resources to pursue acquisitions that are not successfully completed; • the risk of incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations; 19 Table of Contents • the risk of failing to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and timely; and • the risk of diversion of management’s attention from existing operations or other priorities. If we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other operations or assets, our financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be unable to implement an important component of our business strategy successfully. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in integrating our acquisitions in a timely and cost-effective manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. There may be limits to our ability to mobilize drilling units between geographic markets and the time and costs of such drilling unit mobilizations may be material to our business. The offshore contract drilling market is generally a global market as drilling units may be mobilized from one market to another market. However, geographic markets can, from time to time, have material fluctuations in costs and risks as the ability to mobilize drilling units can be impacted by several factors including, but not limited to, governmental regulation and customs practices, the significant costs to move a drilling unit, availability of tow boats, weather, political instability, civil unrest, military actions, and the technical capability of the drilling units to operate in various environments. Any increase in the supply of drilling units in the geographic areas in which we operate, whether through new construction, refurbishment or conversion of drilling units from other uses, remobilization or changes in the law or its application, could increase competition and result in lower dayrates and/or utilization, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, while a drilling unit is being mobilized from one geographic market to another, we may not be paid by the customer for the time that the drilling unit is out of service. Also, we may mobilize the drilling unit to another geographic market without a customer contract which will result in increased operations cost. Operating and maintenance costs will not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. We do not expect operating and maintenance costs to necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in operating revenues. Operating revenues may fluctuate as a function of changes in dayrates. However, costs for operating a drilling unit are generally fixed or only semi-variable regardless of the dayrate being earned. In addition, should the drilling units incur idle time between contracts, we would typically maintain the crew to prepare the drilling unit for its next contract and would not reduce costs to correspond to the decrease in revenue. During times of moderate activity, reductions in costs may not be immediate as the crew may be required to prepare the drilling units for stacking, after which time the crew will be reduced to a level necessary to maintain the drilling unit in working condition with the extra crew members assigned to active drilling units or dismissed. In addition, as drilling units are mobilized from one geographic location to another, the labor and other operating and maintenance costs can vary significantly. Equipment maintenance expenses fluctuate depending upon the type of activity the drilling unit is performing and the age and condition of the equipment. Contract preparation expenses vary based on the scope and length of contract preparation required and the duration of the firm contractual period over which such expenditures are amortized. We are a holding company, and are dependent upon cash flow from subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We currently conduct our operations through, and most of our assets are owned by, our subsidiaries. Our operating income and cash flow are generated by our subsidiaries. As a result, cash we obtain from our subsidiaries is the principal source of funds necessary to meet our obligations. Contractual provisions or laws, as well as our subsidiaries’ financial condition, operating requirements and debt requirements, may limit our ability to obtain cash from subsidiaries that we require to pay our expenses or meet our current or future debt service obligations. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to us by subsidiaries to further taxation. 20 Table of Contents The inability to transfer cash from our subsidiaries may mean that, even though we may have sufficient resources on a consolidated basis to meet our obligations, respectively, we may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from our subsidiaries to meet such obligations. Likewise, we may not be able to make necessary transfers from our subsidiaries in order to provide funds for the payment of our obligations, for which we are or may become responsible under the terms of the governing agreements of our indebtedness. The terms of certain of the agreements governing our indebtedness as described under “Description of Indebtedness” also place restrictions on our cash balance and require us to maintain reserves of cash which could inhibit our ability to meet our obligations. A payment default by us, or any of our subsidiaries, on any debt instruments would have a material adverse effect on our business. The loss of some of our key executive officers and employees could negatively impact our business prospects. Our future operational performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued service of key members of our management as well as marketing, sales and operations personnel. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, retain and further motivate highly skilled management, marketing, sales and operations personnel. We may experience intense competition for personnel, and we cannot assure that we will be able to retain key employees or that we will be successful in attracting, assimilating and retaining personnel in the future. Failure to employ a sufficient number of skilled workers or an increase in labor costs could hurt our operations. We require skilled personnel to operate and provide technical services to, and support for, our drilling units. In periods of increasing activity and when the number of operating units in our areas of operation increases, either because of new construction, re-activation of idle units or the mobilization of units into the region, shortages of qualified personnel could arise, creating upward pressure on wages and difficulty in staffing. The shortages of qualified personnel or the inability to obtain and retain qualified personnel also could negatively affect the quality and timeliness of our work. In addition, our ability to expand operations depends in part upon our ability to increase the size of the skilled labor force. While we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we are still exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We have evaluated our internal controls systems in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We have performed the system and process evaluation and testing required to comply with the management certification requirements of, and preparing for the auditor attestation under, Section 404. As a result, we have incurred additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. While we have been able to fully implement the requirements relating to internal controls and all other aspects of Section 404 in a timely fashion, we cannot be certain that our internal control over financial reporting will be adequate in the future to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting, we may be susceptible to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our securities. Customers may be unable or unwilling to indemnify us. Consistent with standard industry practice, our customers generally assume and indemnify us against well control and subsurface risks under our dayrate contracts. These risks are those associated with the loss of control of a well, such as blowout or cratering, the cost to regain control or redrill the well and associated pollution. We 21 Table of Contents may not be able to obtain agreements from customers to indemnify us for such damages and risks. Additionally, even if our customers agree to indemnify us, there can be no assurance that they will necessarily be financially able to indemnify us against all of these risks. Our business involves numerous operating hazards, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our operations will be subject to the usual hazards inherent in the drilling and operation of oil and natural gas wells, such as blowouts, reservoir damage, loss of production, loss of well control, punchthroughs, craterings, fires and pollution. The occurrence of these events could result in the suspension of drilling or production operations, claims by the operator, severe damage to, or destruction of, the property and equipment involved, injury or death to drilling unit personnel and environmental damage. We may also be subject to personal injury and other claims of drilling unit personnel as a result of our drilling operations. Operations also may be suspended because of machinery breakdowns, abnormal operating conditions, failure of subcontractors to perform or supply goods or services and personnel shortages. In addition, our operations will be subject to perils peculiar to marine operations, including capsizing, grounding, collision and loss or damage from severe weather. Severe weather could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Our drilling units could be damaged by high winds, turbulent seas, or unstable sea bottom conditions which could potentially cause us to curtail operations for significant periods of time until such damages are repaired. Damage to the environment could result from our operations, particularly through oil spillage or extensive uncontrolled fires. We may also be subject to property, environmental and other damage claims by oil and natural gas companies and other businesses operating offshore and in coastal areas. Insurance policies and contractual rights to indemnity may not adequately cover losses, and we may not have insurance coverage or rights to indemnity for all risks. Moreover, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. If a significant accident or other event resulting in damage to our drilling units, including severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, occurs and is not fully covered by insurance or a recoverable indemnity from a customer, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate if a catastrophic event occurs. As a result of the number of catastrophic events in the contract offshore industry in recent years, such as hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, insurance underwriters have increased insurance premiums and increased restrictions on coverage and have made other coverages, such as Gulf of Mexico windstorm coverage, unavailable. While we have, and believe we can maintain, reasonable policy limits of property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for acts of terrorism, with financially sound insurers, we cannot guarantee that our policy limits for property, casualty, liability, and business interruption insurance, including coverage for severe weather, terrorist acts, war, civil disturbances, pollution or environmental damage, would be adequate should a catastrophic event occur related to our property, plant or equipment, or that our insurers would have adequate financial resources to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. When any of our coverage expires, we cannot guarantee that adequate replacement coverage will be available, offered at reasonable prices, or offered by insurers with sufficient financial soundness. The occurrence of an incident or incidents affecting any one or more of our drilling units could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and future results of operations if asset damage and/or company liability was to exceed insurance coverage limits or if an insurer was unable to sufficiently or fully pay related claims or damages. 22 Table of Contents Our business is subject to numerous governmental laws and regulations, including those that may impose significant costs and liability on us for environmental and natural resource damages. Many aspects of our operations are affected by governmental laws and regulations that may relate directly or indirectly to the contract drilling and well servicing industries, including those requiring us to control the discharge of oil and other contaminants into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. Countries where we operate have environmental laws and regulations covering the discharge of oil and other contaminants and protection of the environment in connection with operations. Additionally, any operations and activities in the United States and its territorial waters will be subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations, including the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and even criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations, the denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations and the issuance of injunctions that may limit or prohibit our operations. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years and may in certain circumstances impose strict liability, rendering us liable for environmental and natural resource damages without regard to negligence or fault on our part. These laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time the acts were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations curtailing exploratory or development drilling for oil and natural gas could materially limit future contract drilling opportunities or materially increase our costs. In addition, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures to comply with laws and regulations. Compliance with, or a breach of, environmental and safety laws can be costly and could limit our operations. Our operations are subject to foreign, federal, state and local regulations that require us to obtain and maintain specified permits or other governmental approvals, control the discharge of materials into the environment, require the removal and cleanup of materials that may harm the environment or otherwise relate to the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations protecting the environment have become more stringent in recent years, and may in some cases impose strict liability, rendering a person liable for environmental damage without regard to negligence or fault on the part of such person. Some of these laws and regulations may expose us to liability for the conduct of, or conditions caused by, others or for acts that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time they were performed. The application of these requirements, the modification of existing laws or regulations or the adoption of new requirements could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax laws, treaties or regulations, effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our tax returns could adversely affect our financial results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, treaties and regulations, both internationally and domestically. Tax laws, treaties and regulations are highly complex and subject to interpretation. Consequently, we are subject to changing tax laws, treaties and regulations in and between countries in which we operate. Our income tax expense is based upon the interpretation of the tax laws in effect in various countries at the time that the expense was incurred. A change in these tax laws, treaties or regulations, or in the interpretation thereof, could result in a materially higher tax expense or a higher effective tax rate on our worldwide earnings. If any country successfully challenges our income tax filings based on our structure there, or if we otherwise lose a material dispute, our effective tax rate on worldwide earnings could increase substantially and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Our international operations are subject to additional political, economic, and other uncertainties not generally associated with domestic operations. A primary component of our business strategy is to operate in international oil and natural gas producing areas. Our international operations will be subject to a number of risks inherent in any business operating in foreign countries, including: • political, social and economic instability, war and acts of terrorism; • potential seizure, expropriation or nationalization of assets; • damage to our equipment or violence directed at our employees, including kidnappings; • piracy; • increased operating costs; • complications associated with repairing and replacing equipment in remote locations; • repudiation, modification or renegotiation of contracts; • limitations on insurance coverage, such as war risk coverage in certain areas; • import-export quotas; • confiscatory taxation; • work stoppages; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • wage and price controls; • imposition of trade barriers; • imposition or changes in enforcement of local content laws; • restrictions on currency or capital repatriations; • currency fluctuations and devaluations; and • other forms of government regulation and economic conditions that are beyond our control. Our financial condition and results of operations could be susceptible to adverse events beyond our control that may occur in the particular country or region in which we are active. Additionally, we may experience currency exchange losses where, at some future date, revenues are received and expenses are paid in nonconvertible currencies or where we do not hedge exposure to a foreign currency. We may also incur losses as a result of an inability to collect revenues because of a shortage of convertible currency available to the country of operation, controls over currency exchange or controls over the repatriation of income or capital. Many governments favor or effectively require that drilling contracts be awarded to local contractors or require foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These practices may result in inefficiencies or put us at a disadvantage when bidding for contracts against local competitors. Our contract drilling operations will be subject to various laws and regulations in countries in which we operate, including laws and regulations relating to the equipment and operation of drilling units, currency conversions and repatriation, oil and natural gas exploration and development, taxation of offshore earnings and earnings of expatriate personnel, the use of local employees and suppliers by foreign contractors and duties on the importation and exportation of units and other equipment. Governments in some foreign countries have become increasingly active in regulating and controlling the ownership of concessions and companies holding concessions, the exploration for oil and natural gas and other aspects of the oil and natural gas industries in their 24 Table of Contents countries. In some areas of the world, this governmental activity has adversely affected the amount of exploration and development work done by major oil and natural gas companies and may continue to do so. Operations in less developed countries can be subject to legal systems which are not as mature or predictable as those in more developed countries, which can lead to greater uncertainty in legal matters and proceedings. We could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. Despite our training and compliance program, we cannot assure you that our internal control policies and procedures always will protect us from reckless or negligent acts committed by our employees or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and result in a material adverse effect on our business and operations. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence or using other methods that United States laws and regulations prohibit us from using. In order to effectively compete in some foreign jurisdictions, we utilize local agents and seek to establish joint ventures with local operators or strategic partners. Although we have procedures and controls in place to monitor internal and external compliance, if we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence, or due to the acts or inadvertence of others, including actions taken by our agents and our strategic or local partners, even though our agents and partners are not subject to the FCPA), we could suffer from civil and criminal penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to Ordinary Shares Because F3 Capital holds a significant interest in us, the influence of our public shareholders over significant corporate actions may be limited. As of February 20, 2010, F3 Capital beneficially owns approximately 39.7% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares on a fully diluted basis. F3 Capital is owned by one of our directors. Under Cayman Islands law and our organizational documents, the holder of a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares may elect all of our directors at any shareholder meeting. In addition, the holder of a majority of our outstanding shares may, at any time, execute a consent to remove our directors and replace them with its nominee. Accordingly, F3 Capital has the ability to exert significant influence on all matters that might be submitted to our shareholders for a vote, including matters such as the election of our directors, control over our business, policies and affairs. Additional sales of our ordinary shares or warrants by F3 Capital, or our employees, or issuances by us in connection with future acquisitions or otherwise, could cause the price of our securities to decline. If F3 Capital sells a substantial number of our ordinary shares in the future, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline. The perception among investors that these sales may occur could produce the same effect. Execution of our business strategy will require substantial additional capital. To fulfill these capital requirements, we could issue additional ordinary shares, which would have the effect of diluting your percentage ownership of our ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. If we were to include ordinary shares in a registration statement initiated by us, those additional shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our ordinary shares. 25 Table of Contents Our related party transactions with F3 Capital and its affiliates may cause conflicts of interests that may adversely affect us. We have entered into and may, in the future, enter into various transactions and agreements with F3 Capital and its affiliates. F3 Capital has no fiduciary duty to make decisions in our best interest. F3 Capital is entitled to vote our ordinary shares in accordance with its own interests, which may be contrary to our and your interests and F3 Capital and its other affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us and are not obligated to offer us business opportunities or to offer to sell additional assets to us. We believe that the transactions and agreements that we have entered into with F3 Capital are on terms that are at least as favorable as could reasonably have been obtained at such time from third parties. However, these relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when our board of directors is faced with decisions that could have different implications for us and F3 Capital or its affiliates. The appearance of conflicts, even if such conflicts do not materialize, might adversely affect the public’s perception of us, as well as our relationship with other companies and our ability to enter into new relationships in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business. In addition, conflicts of interest may arise between us and F3 Capital and its affiliates. F3 Capital may favor its own interests over our and your interests. The acquisition of 50% or more of our ordinary shares by F3 Capital would trigger a change of control event under certain of our indebtedness. As of February 20, 2010, F3 Capital beneficially owned approximately 39.7% Upon the occurrence of specified change of control events, including the acquisition of more than 50% of our ordinary shares by F3 Capital, under the indenture governing our senior secured notes described under “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. Any of our future debt agreements may contain acceleration rights upon a change of control. However, it is possible that we may not have sufficient funds at the time of the change of control to make the required repurchase of notes or repayment of any other future indebtedness or that other of our debt may not allow such repurchases. Any of our future debt agreements may also limit our ability to purchase the notes until all such future debt is paid in full. If we fail to repurchase any notes submitted in a change of control offer, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which in turn would constitute a default under our existing debt agreements. In addition, the occurrence of a change of control would also constitute an event of default under our existing debt agreements. A default under our existing or any future credit facility would result in a default under the indenture if the lenders accelerate the debt under our existing or any future debt agreements, even if the change of control itself would not cause a default thereunder. Moreover, we anticipate that the existing or any future debt agreement may restrict, and any other future indebtedness we incur may restrict our ability to repurchase indebtedness, including following a change of control event. We may be unable to repay all of such indebtedness or obtain a waiver of that type. Any requirement to offer to repurchase outstanding notes may therefore require us to refinance our other outstanding debt, which may not be done on commercial reasonable terms, if at all. We have no plans to pay regular dividends on our ordinary shares, so investors in our ordinary shares may not receive funds without selling their shares. We do not intend to declare or pay regular dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future. Instead, we generally intend to invest any future earnings in our business. Subject to Cayman Islands law, our board of directors will determine the payment of future dividends on our ordinary shares, if any, and the amount of any dividends in light of any applicable contractual restrictions limiting our ability to pay dividends, our earnings and cash flows, our capital requirements, our financial condition and other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Our debt agreements also restrict our ability to pay dividends or other distributions on our equity securities. Accordingly, shareholders may have to sell some or all of their ordinary shares in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Shareholders may not receive a gain on their investment when they sell our ordinary shares and may lose the entire amount of their investment. 26 Table of Contents Our stock price has historically been volatile and the future market price for our ordinary shares could continue to be volatile. The public market for our ordinary shares has historically been volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be volatile. Since June 30, 2008, our ordinary shares have traded at prices as low as $0.60 per share and as high as $8.77 per share. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell your ordinary shares when you want and/or at prices you find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused the volatility in our share price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our share price, regardless of our operating performance. A decline in the market price of our ordinary shares could cause you to lose some or all of your investment in us. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands. In addition, most of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (2009 Revision) (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) (the “Companies Law”) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of holders of our securities to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are, to a large extent, governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws thus providing significantly less protection to investors as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, which have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. Additionally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without re-examination of the merits at common law, provided such judgment: • is final and conclusive; • is one in respect of which the federal court of the United States had jurisdiction over the defendant according to Cayman Islands conflict of law rules; 27 Table of Contents • is either for a liquidated sum not in respect of penalties or taxes or a fine or similar fiscal or revenue obligations or, in certain circumstances, for in personam non-monetary relief; and • was neither obtained in a manner, nor is of a kind enforcement of which is contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. One component of our business strategy is to make acquisitions. In the event of any future acquisitions, we could issue additional ordinary shares, which would have the effect of diluting your percentage ownership of the ordinary shares and could cause the price of our ordinary shares to decline. Certain differences in corporate law in the Cayman Islands and the United States could discourage or prevent our acquisition. Cayman Islands companies are governed by, among others laws, the Companies Laws. The Companies Law is modeled on English Law but does not follow recent English Law statutory enactments, and differs from laws applicable to United States corporations and their shareholders. Set forth below is a summary of some significant differences between the provisions of the Companies Law applicable to us and the laws applicable to companies incorporated in the United States and their shareholders. Mergers and Similar Arrangements. Cayman Island law does not provide for mergers as that expression is generally understood under the corporate laws of the various states of the United States. While Cayman Islands law does have statutory provisions that facilitate the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies in certain circumstances, commonly referred to in the Cayman Islands as a “scheme of arrangement” which may be tantamount to a merger, reconstructions and amalgamations can be achieved through other means to these statutory provisions, such as a share capital exchange, asset acquisition or control, through contractual arrangements, of an operating business. In the event that these statutory provisions are used (which are more rigorous and take longer to complete than the procedures typically required to consummate a merger in the United States), the arrangement in question must be approved by a majority in number of each class of shareholders and creditors with whom the arrangement is to be made and who must in addition represent three-fourths in value of each such class of shareholders or creditors, as the case may be, that are present and voting either in person or by proxy at a meeting, or meeting summoned for that purpose. The convening of the meetings and subsequently the terms of the arrangement must be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. While a dissenting shareholder would have the right to express to the court the view that the transaction ought not be approved, the court can be expected to approve the arrangement if it satisfies itself that: • we are not proposing to act illegally or beyond the scope of our corporate authority and the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been complied with; • the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question; • the arrangement is such as a businessman would reasonably approve; and • the arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law or that would amount to a “fraud on the minority.” When a takeover offer is made and accepted by holders of 90% of the shares to which the offer applies within four months, the offeror may, within a two-month period, require the holders of the remaining shares to transfer such shares on the terms of the offer. An objection can be made to the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands but this is unlikely to succeed unless there is evidence of fraud, bad faith, collusion or inequitable treatment of the shareholders. If the arrangement and reconstruction is thus approved, the dissenting shareholder would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights, which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of United States corporations, providing rights to receive payment in cash for the judicially determined value of the shares. 28 Table of Contents Shareholders’ Suits. Our Cayman Islands counsel is not aware of any reported class action or derivative action having been successfully brought in a Cayman Islands court. In principle, we will normally be the proper plaintiff and a claim against us (for example) or our officers or directors may not be brought by a shareholder. However, based on English authorities, which would in all likelihood be of persuasive authority and be applied by a court in the Cayman Islands, exceptions to the foregoing principle apply in circumstances in which: • a company is acting or proposing to act illegally or beyond the scope of its authority; • the act complained of, although not beyond the scope of the authority, could be effected if duly authorized by more than the number of votes which have actually been obtained; or • those who control the company are perpetrating a “fraud on the minority.” A shareholder may have a direct right of action against the company where the individual rights of that shareholder have been infringed or are about to be infringed. Holders of ordinary shares may have difficulty obtaining or enforcing a judgment against us because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States and provides significantly less protection to investors. Additionally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to sue before the federal courts of the United States. Although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize a foreign judgment as the basis for a claim at common law in the Cayman Islands provided such judgment: • is given by a competent foreign court; • imposes on the judgment debtor a liability to pay a liquidated sum for which the judgment has been given; • is final; • is not in respect of taxes, a fine or a penalty; and • was not obtained in a manner and is not of a kind the enforcement of which is contrary to the public policy of the Cayman Islands. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 