RISK FACTORS An investment in Federal-Mogul involves various risks. When considering an investment in Federal-Mogul the following factors should be considered: Adverse conditions in the automotive market adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and exposes the Company to credit risks of its customers: The revenues of the Company’s operations are closely tied to global OE automobile sales, production levels, and independent aftermarket parts replacement activity. The OE market is characterized by short-term volatility, with overall expected long-term growth in global vehicle sales and production. Automotive production in the local markets served by the Company can be affected by macro-economic factors such as interest rates, fuel prices, consumer confidence, employment trends, regulatory requirements and trade agreements. A variation in the level of automobile production would affect not only sales to OE customers but, depending on the reasons for the change, could impact demand from aftermarket customers. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if the Company fails to respond in a timely and appropriate manner to changes in the demand for its products. Relative to the global automotive industry, the financial stability of the United States automotive industry has been deteriorating. Since 2001, several large U.S. based automotive companies have filed for bankruptcy protection, including: Collins & Aikman Corporation, Dana Corporation, Delphi Corporation, Dura Automotive, Intermet Corporation, Meridian Automotive Systems, Plastech Corporation and Tower Automotive. Several other companies have announced significant restructuring activities to eliminate excess capacity, reduce costs, and achieve other benefits normally associated with restructuring activities. Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of accounts receivable and cash investments. The Company’s customer base includes virtually every significant global automotive manufacturer, numerous Tier 1 automotive suppliers, and a large number of distributors and installers of automotive aftermarket parts. The Company’s operations in foreign countries exposes the Company to risks related to economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations and import/export restrictions: The Company has manufacturing and distribution facilities in many countries. International operations are subject to certain risks including: • exposure to local economic conditions; • exposure to local political conditions (including the risk of seizure of assets by foreign governments); • currency exchange rate fluctuations and currency controls; and • export and import restrictions. 18 Table of Contents The likelihood of such occurrences and their potential effect on the Company are unpredictable and vary from country to country. Certain of the Company’s operating entities report their financial condition and results of operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar (including, but not limited to, Brazilian real, British pound, Chinese yuan renminbi, Czech crown, euro, Indian rupee, Japanese yen, Mexican pesos, Polish zloty, and Russian ruble). In reporting its consolidated statements of operations, the Company translates the reported results of these entities into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, fluctuations in the dollar against foreign currencies will affect the value at which the results of these entities are included within Federal-Mogul’s consolidated results. The Company is exposed to a risk of gain or loss from changes in foreign exchange rates whenever the Company, or one of its foreign subsidiaries, enters into a purchase or sales agreement in a currency other than its functional currency. While the Company reduces such exposure by matching most revenues and costs within the same currency, changes in exchange rates could impact the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. The Company has substantial indebtedness, which could restrict the Company’s business activities: As of December 31, 2007, the Company had approximately $2.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness. The Company is permitted by the terms of its debt instruments to incur substantial additional indebtedness, subject to the restrictions therein. The Company’s inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy its debt obligations, or to refinance its debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s indebtedness could: • limit the Company’s ability to borrow money for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; • require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow to payments on indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; • increase the Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and • limit the Company’s ability to respond to business opportunities. If the Company loses any of its executive officers or key employees, the Company’s operations and ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of its business may be materially adversely affected: The Company’s future performance substantially depends on its ability to retain and motivate executive officers and key employees, both individually and as a group. If the Company loses any of its executive officers or key employees, which have many years of experience with the Company and within the automotive industry and other manufacturing industries, or are unable to recruit qualified personnel, the Company’s ability to manage the day-to-day aspects of its business may be materially adversely affected. The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or key employees, who also have strong personal ties with customers and suppliers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company does not currently maintain “key person” life insurance. The price of the Company’s common stock is subject to volatility: Various factors could cause the market price of the Company’s common stock to fluctuate substantially including general financial market changes, changes in governmental regulation, significant automotive industry announcements or developments, the introduction of new products or technologies by the Company or its competitors, and changes in other conditions or trends in the automotive industry. Other factors that could cause the Company’s stock price to fluctuate could be actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s or its competitors’ quarterly or annual financial results, financial results failing to meet expectations of analysts or investors, changes in securities analysts’ estimates of the Company’s future performance or of that of the Company’s competitors and the general health of the automotive industry. 19 Table of Contents Mr. Carl C. Icahn exerts significant influence over the Company and his interests may conflict with the interest of the Company’s other stockholders: Mr. Carl C. Icahn indirectly controls approximately 75% of the voting power of the Company’s capital stock and, by virtue of such stock ownership, is able to control or exert substantial influence over the Company, including: • the election of directors; • any determination with respect to the Company’s business strategy and policies • mergers or other business combinations involving the Company; • the Company’s acquisition or disposition of assets; • future issuances of common stock or other securities by the Company; • the Company’s incurrence of debt or obtaining other sources of financing; and • the payment of dividends on the Company’s common stock. The existence of a controlling stockholder may have the effect of making it difficult for, or may discourage or delay, a third party from seeking to acquire, a majority of the Company’s outstanding common stock, which may adversely affect the market price of the stock. Mr. Icahn’s interests may not always be consistent with the Company’s interests or with the interests of the Company’s other stockholders. Mr. Carl C. Icahn and entities controlled by him may also pursue acquisitions or business opportunities that may or may not be complementary to the Company’s business. To the extent that conflicts of interest may arise between the Company and Mr. Icahn and his affiliates, those conflicts may be resolved in a manner adverse to the Company or its other shareholders. The Company’s stock price may decline due to sales of shares by Mr. Carl C. Icahn and other stockholders: Sales of substantial amounts of the Company’s common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, may adversely affect the price of the Company’s common stock and impede its ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities in the future. Of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, approximately 75% are beneficially owned indirectly by the Company’s principal beneficial stockholder and the Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors, Mr. Carl C. Icahn. Mr. Icahn is contractually entitled, subject to certain exceptions, to exercise his demand registration rights to cause the Company to register his shares under the Securities Act. By exercising his registration rights and selling a large number of shares, Mr. Icahn could cause the price of the Company’s common stock to decline. No other shareholder has registration rights. The Company may pursue acquisitions or joint ventures that involve inherent risks, any of which may cause the Company not to realize anticipated benefits, and the Company may have difficulty integrating the operations of any companies that may be acquired, which may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations: In the past, the Company has grown through acquisitions, and may engage in acquisitions in the future as part of the Company’s global sustainable profitable growth strategy. The full benefits of these acquisitions, however, require integration of manufacturing, administrative, financial, sales, and marketing approaches and personnel. If the Company is unable to successfully integrate its acquisitions, it may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions, the financial results may be negatively affected, or additional cash may be required to integrate such operations. In the future, the Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities or complete any particular acquisition, combination, joint venture or other transaction on acceptable terms. The Company’s identification of suitable acquisition candidates and joint venture opportunities and the integration of acquired business operations involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks and profitability of these opportunities. This includes the effects on the Company’s business, diversion of management’s attention and risks associated with unanticipated problems or unforeseen liabilities, and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be used for the ongoing development of the Company’s business. 20 Table of Contents The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. These difficulties could be further increased to the extent the Company pursues acquisition or joint venture opportunities internationally. The Company may not be effective in retaining key employees or customers of the combined businesses. The Company may face integration issues pertaining to the internal controls and operations functions of the acquired companies and also may not realize cost efficiencies or synergies that were anticipated when selecting the acquisition candidates. The Company may experience managerial or other conflicts with its joint venture partners. Any of these items could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s failure to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities may restrict the Company’s ability to grow its business. If the Company is successful in pursuing future acquisitions or joint ventures, the Company may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or issue additional securities, which may materially adversely affect results of operations and be dilutive to the Company’s stockholders. If the Company spends significant funds or incurs additional debt, the Company’s ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could decline and the Company may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. The Company’s restructuring activities may not result in the anticipated synergies and cost savings: The Company intends to incur additional restructuring charges and related costs of approximately $30 million during 2008 in connection with the Company’s global sustainable profitable growth strategy. It is possible that such costs could vary from initially projected amounts or that achieving the expected synergies and cost savings will require additional costs or charges to earnings in future periods. Any costs or charges could adversely impact the business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Certain disruptions in supply of and changes in the competitive environment for raw materials could adversely affect the Company’s operating margins and cash flows: The Company uses a broad range of materials and supplies, including resins and non-ferrous metals, in its products. The Company also uses a significant amount of energy, both electricity and natural gas, in the production of its products. A significant disruption in the supply of these materials, supplies and energy could decrease production and shipping levels, materially increase operating costs and materially adversely affect profit margins. Shortages of materials or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor or transportation in the markets where the Company purchases material, components and supplies for the production of products or where the products are produced, distributed or sold, whether as a result of labor strife, war, further acts of terrorism or otherwise, in each case may adversely affect profitability. In recent periods there have been significant increases in the global prices of aluminum, copper, lead, platinum group metals, resins, steel and energy which have had and may continue to have an unfavorable impact on the Company’s business. Management anticipates that these increases will continue to adversely affect the Company’s business throughout 2008. Any continued fluctuations in the price or availability of energy, steel, resins, copper, nickel, or other materials may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. To address increased costs associated with these market forces, a number of the Company’s suppliers have implemented surcharges on existing fixed price contracts. Without the surcharge, some suppliers claim they will be unable to provide adequate supply. Competitive and marketing pressures may limit the Company’s ability to pass some of the supply and raw material cost increases onto the Company’s customers, particularly with domestic vehicle manufactures, and may prevent the Company from doing so in the future. Furthermore, the Company’s customers are generally not obligated to accept price increases that the Company may desire to pass along to them. This inability to pass on price increases to customers when raw material prices increase rapidly or to significantly higher than historic levels could adversely affect the Company’s operating margins and cash flow, possibly resulting in lower operating income and profitability. The Company’s hedging activities to address commodity price fluctuations may not be successful in offsetting future increases in those costs or may reduce or eliminate the benefits of any decreases in those costs. In order 21 Table of Contents to mitigate short-term variation in operating results due to the aforementioned commodity price fluctuations, the Company hedges a portion of near-term exposure to certain raw materials used in production processes, primarily natural gas, copper, nickel, lead, high-grade aluminum and aluminum alloy. The results of the Company’s hedging practice could be positive, neutral or negative in any period depending on price changes in the hedged exposures. The Company’s hedging activities are not designed to mitigate long-term commodity price fluctuations and, therefore, will not protect from long-term commodity price increases. The Company’s future hedging positions may not correlate to actual energy or raw materials costs, which would cause acceleration in the recognition of unrealized gains and losses on hedging positions in operating results. The Company is subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and the cost of complying, or the Company’s failure to comply with such requirements may have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations: The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations relating to the release or discharge of materials into the environment, the management, use, processing, handling, storage, transport or disposal of hazardous waste materials, or otherwise relating to the protection of public and employee health, safety and the environment. These laws and regulations expose the Company to liability for the environmental condition of its current facilities, and also may expose the Company to liability for the conduct of others or for the Company’s actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time these actions were taken. These laws and regulations also may expose the Company to liability for claims of personal injury or property damage related to alleged exposure to hazardous or toxic materials in foreign countries where such liability has not been resolved through the Company’s 524(g) Trust. Despite the Company’s intention to be in compliance with all such laws and regulations, the Company cannot guarantee that it will at all times be in compliance with all such requirements. The cost of complying with these requirements may also increase substantially in future years. If the Company violates or fails to comply with these requirements, the Company could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. These requirements are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company’s failure to maintain and comply with environmental permits that the Company is required to maintain could result in fines or penalties or other sanctions and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s operations or results. Future events, such as new environmental regulations or changes in or modified interpretations of existing laws and regulations or enforcement policies, newly discovered information or further investigation or evaluation of the potential health hazards of products or business activities, may give rise to additional compliance and other costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial conditions and operations. The Company is involved from time to time in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s profitability and consolidated financial position. The Company is involved in legal proceedings and commercial or contractual disputes that, from time to time, are significant. These are typically claims that arise in the normal course of business including, without limitation, commercial or contractual disputes, including disputes with suppliers, intellectual property matters, personal injury claims, environmental issues, tax matters and employment matters. No assurances can be given that such proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s profitability and consolidated financial position. If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property and prevent its improper use by third parties, the Company’s ability to compete in the market may be harmed: Various patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws afford only limited protection and may not prevent the Company’s competitors from duplicating the Company’s products or gaining access to its proprietary information and technology. These means also may not permit the Company to gain or maintain a competitive advantage. Any of the Company’s patents may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. The Company cannot guarantee that it will be successful should one or more of its patents be challenged for any 22 Table of Contents reason. If the Company’s patent claims are rendered invalid or unenforceable, or narrowed in scope, the patent coverage afforded to the Company’s products could be impaired, which could significantly impede the Company’s ability to market its products, negatively affect its competitive position and materially adversely affect its business and results of operations. The Company’s pending or future patent applications held by us may not result in an issued patent and, if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. The United States federal courts may invalidate the Company’s patents or find them unenforceable. Competitors may also be able to design around the Company’s patents. Other parties may develop and obtain patent protection for more effective technologies, designs or methods. If these developments were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on the Company’s sales. If the Company’s intellectual property rights are not adequately protected, the Company may not be able to commercialize its technologies, products or services and the Company’s competitors could commercialize the Company’s technologies, which could result in a decrease in the Company’s sales and market share and could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s products could infringe the intellectual property rights of others, which may lead to litigation that could itself be costly, could result in the payment of substantial damages or royalties, and could prevent the Company from using technology that is essential to its products: The Company cannot guarantee that its products, manufacturing processes or other methods do not infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Infringement and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against the Company, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm the Company’s reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of its business. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force the Company to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using any of products that incorporate the asserted intellectual property, which would adversely affect the Company’s revenue; • pay substantial damages for past use of the asserted intellectual property; • obtain a license from the holder of the asserted intellectual property, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and • redesign or rename, in the case of trademark claims, products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or the Company’s failure to license essential technology, the Company’s sales could be harmed and its costs could increase, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1.B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 Table of Contents 