ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS AND UNCERTAINTIES Readers should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before deciding whether to invest in our common shares. Our failure to successfully address the risks and uncertainties described below would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and/or results of operations, and the trading price of our common shares may decline and investors may lose all or part of their investment. We cannot assure you that we will successfully address these risks or other unknown risks that may affect our business. Estimates of mineralized material are forward-looking statements inherently subject to error. Unforeseen events and uncontrollable factors can have a significant impact on mineralized material estimates and actual results may differ from estimates. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and will require additional financing to fund exploration and, if warranted, development and production. Failure to obtain additional financing could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operation and could cast uncertainty on our ability to continue as a going concern. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011, our net loss was ($16,657,962). Our accumulated deficit at June 30, 2011 was ($26,770,730). At June 30, 2011, our cash position was $72,311,970 and our working capital position was $71,952,619. We have not commenced commercial production on any of our mineral properties. We have no revenues from operations and anticipate we will have no operating revenues until we place one or more of our properties into production. All of our properties are in the exploration stage. Our management believes that based on our current working capital position, we will be able to continue operations only through the end of Fiscal 2013 without raising additional capital either through debt or equity financing. We currently do not have sufficient funds to fully complete exploration and development work on any of our properties, which means that we will be required to raise additional capital, enter into joint venture relationships or find alternative means to finance placing one or more of our properties into commercial production, if warranted. If we fail to raise additional funds we will curtail our activities and may risk being unable to maintain our interests in our mineral properties. Failure to obtain sufficient financing may result in the delay or indefinite postponement of exploration and development or production on one or more of our properties and any properties we may acquire in the future or even a loss of property interests. This includes our leases over claims covering the principal deposits on our properties, which may expire unless we expend minimum levels of expenditures over the terms of such leases. We cannot be certain that 10 additional capital or other types of financing will be available if needed or that, if available, the terms of such financing will be favorable or acceptable to us. Future financings may cause dilution to our shareholders. Our ability to arrange additional financing in the future will depend, in part, on the prevailing capital market conditions as well as our business performance. The most likely source of future financing presently available to us is through the sale of our securities. Any sale of common shares will result in dilution of equity ownership to existing shareholders. This means that if we sell common shares, more common shares will be outstanding and each existing shareholder will own a smaller percentage of the shares then outstanding. Alternatively, we may rely on debt financing and assume debt obligations that require us to make substantial interest and capital payments. Also, we may issue or grant warrants or options in the future pursuant to which additional common shares may be issued. Exercise of such warrants or options will result in dilution of equity ownership to our existing shareholders. We have no history of producing metals from our mineral properties. We have no history of producing metals from any of our properties. Our properties are all exploration stage properties in various stages of exploration and evaluation. Our Bear Lodge REE Project and Sundance Gold Project are advanced exploration stage projects with identified mineralization, and our Eden Lake Property and Nuiklavik Property are each early stage exploration projects. Advancing properties from exploration into the development stage requires significant capital and time, and successful commercial production from a property, if any, will be subject to completing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of the mine, processing plants, roads, and other related works and infrastructure. As a result, we are subject to all of the risks associated with developing and establishing new mining operations and business enterprises including: · completion of feasibility studies to verify reserves and commercial viability, including the ability to find sufficient REE or gold reserves to support a commercial mining operation; · the timing and cost, which can be considerable, of further exploration, preparing feasibility studies, permitting and construction of infrastructure, mining and processing facilities; · the availability and costs of drill equipment, exploration personnel, skilled labor and mining and processing equipment, if required; · the availability and cost of appropriate smelting and/or refining arrangements, if required, and securing a commercially viable sales outlet for our products; · compliance with environmental and other governmental approval and permit requirements; · the availability of funds to finance exploration, development and construction activities, as warranted; · potential opposition from non-governmental organizations, environmental groups, local groups or local inhabitants which may delay or prevent development activities; · potential increases in exploration, construction and operating costs due to changes in the cost of fuel, power, materials and supplies; and · potential shortages of mineral processing, construction and other facilities related supplies. The costs, timing and complexities of exploration, development and construction activities may be increased by the location of our properties and demand by other mineral exploration and mining companies. It is common in exploration programs to experience unexpected problems and delays during drill programs and, if warranted, development, construction and mine start-up. Accordingly, our activities may not result in profitable mining operations and we may not succeed in establishing mining operations or profitably producing metals at any of our properties. Increased costs could affect our financial condition. We anticipate that costs at our projects that we may explore or develop, will frequently be subject to variation from one year to the next due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, metallurgy and revisions to mine plans, if any, in response to the physical shape and location of the ore body. In addition, costs are affected by the price of commodities such as fuel, rubber, and electricity. Such commodities are at times subject to volatile price movements, including increases that could make production at certain operations less profitable. A material increase in costs at any significant location could have a significant effect on our profitability. 11 A shortage of equipment and supplies could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We are dependent on various supplies and equipment to carry out our mining exploration and, if warranted, development operations. The shortage of such supplies, equipment and parts could have a material adverse effect on our ability to carry out our operations and therefore limit or increase the cost of production. Mining and resource exploration is inherently dangerous and subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and plans. Mining and mineral exploration involves various types of risks and hazards, including: · environmental hazards; · power outages; · metallurgical and other processing problems; · unusual or unexpected geological formations; · personal injury, flooding, fire, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and rock-bursts; · inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment, or labor; · metals losses; · fluctuations in exploration, development and production costs; · labor disputes; · unanticipated variations in grade; · mechanical equipment failure; and · periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, mineral properties, production facilities or other properties, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in mining, increased production costs, monetary losses and possible legal liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance against certain environmental risks, including potential liability for pollution or other hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from production, may be prohibitively expensive. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business if we incur losses related to any significant events that are not covered by our insurance policies. We operate in the resource industry, which is highly speculative, and has certain inherent exploration risks which could have a negative effect on our operations. Our long-term success depends on our ability to identify mineral deposits on our existing properties and other properties we may acquire, if any, that we can then develop into commercially viable mining operations. Resource exploration is a highly speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Substantial expenditures are required to establish proven and probable reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop metallurgical processes to extract metal, and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by us may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond our control and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors such as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environment protection. Any one or a combination of these factors may result in us not receiving an adequate return on our investment capital. The decision to abandon a project may have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities and our ability to raise future financing We have no known reserves and no economic reserves may exist on our properties, which could have a negative effect on our operations and valuation. Despite exploration work on our mineral claims, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established on any of our mineral properties. In addition, we are at the exploration stage on all of our properties and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits exist on its properties. We 12 may expend substantial funds in exploring its properties only to abandon them and lose its entire expenditure on the properties if no commercial or economic quantities of minerals are found. Even if commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the exploration properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, including the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are the particular attributes of the deposit, such as content of the deposit including harmful substances, size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as element prices and the availability of power and water in sufficient supply to permit development. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. We are an exploration stage company with no history of pre-tax profit and no income from its operations. There can be no assurance that our operations will be profitable in the future. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by us in the exploration of our properties will result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of mineral reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) mineral deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production. If we are unsuccessful in our exploration efforts, we may be forced to acquire additional projects or cease operations which may have an adverse effect on the market value of our securities and our ability to raise future financing. The figures for our resources are estimates based on interpretation and assumptions and may yield less mineral production under actual conditions than is currently estimated. Unless otherwise indicated, mineralization figures presented in this Annual Report and in our filings with securities regulatory authorities, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based upon estimates made by independent geologists and our internal geologists. When making determinations about whether to advance any of our projects to development, we must rely upon such estimated calculations as to the mineral reserves and grades of mineralization on our properties. Until ore is actually mined and processed, mineral reserves and grades of mineralization must be considered as estimates only. Estimates can be imprecise and depend upon geological interpretation and statistical inferences drawn from drilling and sampling analysis, which may prove to be unreliable. We cannot assure you that: · these estimates will be accurate; · resource or other mineralization estimates will be accurate; or · this mineralization can be mined or processed profitably. Any material changes in mineral resource estimates and grades of mineralization will affect the economic viability of placing a property into production and a property's return on capital. Because we have not completed feasibility studies on any of our properties and have not commenced actual production, mineralization estimates, including resource estimates, for our properties may require adjustments or downward revisions. In addition, the grade of ore ultimately mined, if any, may differ from that indicated by our feasibility studies and drill results. Minerals recovered in small scale tests may not be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. The resource estimates contained in this Annual Report have been determined and valued based on assumed future prices, cut-off grades and operating costs that may prove to be inaccurate. Extended declines in market prices for gold, silver or other commodities may render portions of our mineralization and resource estimates uneconomic and result in reduced reported mineralization or adversely affect the commercial viability determinations we reach. Any material reductions in estimates of mineralization, or of our ability to extract this mineralization, could have a material adverse effect on our share price and the value of our properties. 13 There are differences in U.S. and Canadian practices for reporting reserves and resources. Our reserve and resource estimates are not directly comparable to those made in filings subject to SEC reporting and disclosure requirements, as we generally report reserves and resources in accordance with Canadian practices. These practices are different from the practices used to report reserve and resource estimates in reports and other materials filed with the SEC. It is Canadian practice to report measured, indicated and inferred resources, which are generally not permitted in disclosure filed with the SEC by United States issuers. In the United States, mineralization may not be classified as a "reserve" unless the determination has been made that the mineralization could be economically and legally produced or extracted at the time the reserve determination is made. United States investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any part of measured or indicated resources will ever be converted into reserves. Further, "inferred resources" have a great amount of uncertainty as to their existence and as to whether they can be mined legally or economically. Disclosure of "contained ounces" is permitted disclosure under Canadian regulations; however, the SEC only permits issuers to report "resources" as in place tonnage and grade without reference to unit measures. Accordingly, information concerning descriptions of mineralization, reserves and resources contained in this report, or in the documents incorporated herein by reference, may not be comparable to information made public by other United States companies subject to the reporting and disclosure requirements of the SEC. See “Cautionary Note to U.S. Investors Regarding Resource and Reserve Estimates” above. Our operations contain significant uninsured risks which could negatively impact future profitability as we maintain no insurance against our operations. Our exploration of our mineral properties contains certain risks, including unexpected or unusual operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, flooding, fire and earthquakes. It is not always possible to insure against these risks. Should events such as these arise, they could reduce or eliminate our assets and shareholder equity as well as result in increased costs and a decline in the value of our securities. We expect to maintain only general liability and director and officer insurance but no insurance against our properties or operations. We may decide to take out this insurance in the future if it is available at economically viable rates. Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of our control which could negatively impact our operations. The marketability of minerals is affected by numerous factors beyond our control including market fluctuations, government regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, allowable production, imports, exports and supply and demand. One or more of these risk elements could have an impact on the costs of our operations and if significant enough, reduce the profitability of our operations. Permitting, licensing and approval processes are required for our operations and obtaining and maintaining these permits and licenses is subject to conditions which we may be unable to achieve. Many of our operations require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. We believe we hold or are in the process of obtaining all necessary licenses and permits to carry on the activities which we are currently conducting or propose to conduct under applicable laws and regulations. Such licenses and permits are subject to changes in regulations and changes in various operating circumstances. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to maintain our exploration and mining activities including constructing mines or milling facilities and commencing operations of any of our exploration properties. In addition, if we proceed to production on any exploration property, we must obtain and comply with permits and licenses which may contain specific operating conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such permits and licenses or that we will be able to comply with any such conditions. Costs related to applying for and obtaining permits and licenses may be prohibitive and could delay our planned exploration and development activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. 14 Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. Amendments to current laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of mining companies, or more stringent implementation thereof, could have a material adverse impact on our operations and cause increases in capital expenditures or production costs or reduction in levels of production at producing properties or require abandonment or delays in development of new mining properties. We are subject to significant governmental regulations, which affect our operations and costs of conducting our business. Our current and future operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations, including: · laws and regulations governing mineral concession acquisition, prospecting, development, mining and production; · laws and regulations related to exports, taxes and fees; · labor standards and regulations related to occupational health and mine safety; · environmental standards and regulations related to waste disposal, toxic substances, land use and environmental protection; and · other matters. Companies engaged in exploration activities often experience increased costs and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. Failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits may result in enforcement actions, including the forfeiture of claims, orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities requiring operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment or costly remedial actions. We may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of our mineral exploration activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of such laws, regulations and permits. Existing and possible future laws, regulations and permits governing operations and activities of exploration companies, or more stringent implementation, could have a material adverse impact on our business and cause increases in capital expenditures or require abandonment or delays in exploration. Our operations are subject to environmental risks and compliance with environmental regulations which are increasing and costly. All phases of our operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which will require stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors and employees. These laws address emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations and future changes in these laws and regulations may require significant capital outlays and may cause material changes or delays in our operations and future activities. It is possible that future changes in these laws or regulations could have a significant adverse impact on our properties or some portion of our business, causing us to re-evaluate those activities at that time. U.S. Federal Laws The Comprehensive Environmental, Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), and comparable state statutes, impose strict, joint and several liability on current and former owners and operators of sites and on persons who disposed of or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances found at such sites. It is not uncommon for the government to file claims requiring cleanup actions, demands for reimbursement for government-incurred cleanup costs, or natural resource damages, or for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances released into the environment. The Federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and comparable state statutes, govern the disposal of solid waste and hazardous waste and authorize the imposition of substantial fines and penalties for noncompliance, as well as requirements for corrective actions. CERCLA, RCRA and comparable state statutes can impose liability for clean-up 15 of sites and disposal of substances found on exploration, mining and processing sites long after activities on such sites have been completed. The Clean Air Act, as amended, restricts the emission of air pollutants from many sources, including mining and processing activities. Our mining operations may produce air emissions, including fugitive dust and other air pollutants from stationary equipment, storage facilities and the use of mobile sources such as trucks and heavy construction equipment, which are subject to review, monitoring and/or control requirements under the Clean Air Act and state air quality laws. New facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to remain in compliance. In addition, permitting rules may impose limitations on our production levels or result in additional capital expenditures in order to comply with the rules. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires federal agencies to integrate environmental considerations into their decision-making processes by evaluating the environmental impacts of their proposed actions, including issuance of permits to mining facilities, and assessing alternatives to those actions. If a proposed action could significantly affect the environment, the agency must prepare a detailed statement known as an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, other federal agencies, and any interested third parties will review and comment on the scoping of the EIS and the adequacy of and findings set forth in the draft and final EIS. This process can cause delays in issuance of required permits or result in changes to a project to mitigate its potential environmental impacts, which can in turn impact the economic feasibility of a proposed project. The Clean Water Act (CWA), and comparable state statutes, impose restrictions and controls on the discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or an analogous state agency. The CWA regulates storm water mining facilities and requires a storm water discharge permit for certain activities. Such a permit requires the regulated facility to monitor and sample storm water run-off from its operations. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit discharges of dredged and fill material in wetlands and other waters of the United States unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. The CWA and comparable state statutes provide for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for unauthorized discharges of pollutants and impose liability on parties responsible for those discharges for the costs of cleaning up any environmental damage caused by the release and for natural resource damages resulting from the release. The Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program promulgated thereunder, regulate the drilling and operation of subsurface injection wells. EPA directly administers the UIC program in some states and in others the responsibility for the program has been delegated to the state. The program requires that a permit be obtained before drilling a disposal or injection well. Violation of these regulations and/or contamination of groundwater by mining related activities may result in fines, penalties, and remediation costs, among other sanctions and liabilities under the SWDA and state laws. In addition, third party claims may be filed by landowners and other parties claiming damages for alternative water supplies, property damages, and bodily injury. Legislation has been proposed that would significantly affect the mining industry. Members of the U.S. Congress have repeatedly introduced bills which would supplant or alter the provisions of the Mining Law of 1872. If enacted, such legislation could change the cost of holding unpatented mining claims and could significantly impact our ability to develop mineralized material on unpatented mining claims. Such bills have proposed, among other things, to either eliminate or greatly limit the right to a mineral patent and to impose a federal royalty on production from unpatented mining claims. Although we cannot predict what legislated royalties might be, the enactment of these proposed bills could adversely affect the potential for development of unpatented mining claims and the economics of existing operating mines on federal unpatented mining claims. Passage of such legislation could adversely affect our financial performance. Regulations and pending legislation governing issues involving climate change could result in increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory changes in response to various climate change interest groups and the potential impact of climate change. Legislation and increased regulation regarding climate change could impose significant costs on us, our venture partners and our suppliers, including costs related to increased energy requirements, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting and other costs to comply with such regulations. Any adopted future climate change regulations could also 16 negatively impact our ability to compete with companies situated in areas not subject to such limitations. Given the emotion, political significance and uncertainty around the impact of climate change and how it should be dealt with, we cannot predict how legislation and regulation will affect our financial condition, operating performance and ability to compete. Furthermore, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about potential impacts on climate change by us or other companies in our industry could harm our reputation. The potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and would be particular to the geographic circumstances in areas in which we operate. These may include changes in rainfall and storm patterns and intensities, water shortages, changing sea levels and changing temperatures. These impacts may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. Land reclamation requirements for our properties may be burdensome and expensive. Although variable depending on location and the governing authority, land reclamation requirements are generally imposed on mineral exploration companies (as well as companies with mining operations) in order to minimize long term effects of land disturbance. Reclamation may include requirements to: · control dispersion of potentially deleterious effluents; · treat ground and surface water to drinking water standards; and · reasonably re-establish pre-disturbance land forms and vegetation. In order to carry out reclamation obligations imposed on us in connection with our potential development activities, we must allocate financial resources that might otherwise be spent on further exploration and development programs. We plan to set up a provision for our reclamation obligations on our properties, as appropriate, but this provision may not be adequate. If we are required to carry out unanticipated reclamation work, our financial position could be adversely affected. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. The mining industry is intensely competitive. Significant competition exists for the acquisition of properties producing or capable of producing, REE, gold or other metals. We may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because we must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than us. We may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in our efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs, mining equipment and production equipment. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. We compete with larger, better capitalized competitors in the mining industry. The mining industry is competitive in all of its phases, including financing, technical resources, personnel and property acquisition. We will require significant capital, technical resources, personnel and operational experience to effectively compete in the mining industry. Because of the high costs associated with exploration, the expertise required to analyze a project's potential and the capital required to develop a mine, larger companies with significant resources may have a competitive advantage over us. We face strong competition from other mining companies, some with greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than us. As a result of this competition, we may be unable to maintain or acquire financing, personnel, technical resources or attractive mining properties on terms we consider acceptable or at all. Joint ventures and other partnerships may expose us to risks. Historically, we have entered into joint venture arrangements to help fund the exploration and potential development of our properties. In the future, we may enter into joint ventures or other partnership arrangements with other parties in relation to the exploration, development and production of certain of the properties in which we have an interest. Joint ventures can often require unanimous approval of the parties to the joint venture or their representatives for certain fundamental decisions such as an increase or reduction of registered capital, merger, division, dissolution, amendments 17 of constating documents, and the pledge of joint venture assets, which means that each joint venture party may have a veto right with respect to such decisions which could lead to a deadlock in the operations of the joint venture or partnership. Further, we may be unable to exert control over strategic decisions made in respect of such properties. Any failure of such other companies to meet their obligations to us or to third parties, or any disputes with respect to the parties' respective rights and obligations, could have a material adverse effect on the joint ventures or their properties and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial performance, cash flows and the price of the common shares. Foreign currency fluctuations may have a negative impact on our financial position and results. Our property interests in the United States make us subject to foreign currency fluctuations that may adversely affect our financial position and results. As we maintain our accounts in Canadian dollars, any appreciation in the US Dollar against the Canadian Dollar will increase our costs of carrying out operations in the United States. Management has not entered into any foreign currency contracts to mitigate this risk; as such, we may suffer losses due to adverse foreign currency fluctuations. We are dependent on key personnel and the absence of any of these individuals could adversely affect us. Our success is currently largely dependent on the performance, retention and abilities of our directors, officers, employees and management. The loss of the services of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. There is no assurance that we can maintain the services of our directors, officers, employees or other qualified personnel required to operate its business. Failure to do so could have a material adverse affect on us and our prospects. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We may experience difficulty attracting and retaining qualified management to meet the needs of our anticipated growth, and the failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Competition for additional qualified management is intense, and we may be unable to attract and retain additional key personnel, or to attract and retain personnel on terms acceptable to us. Management personnel are currently limited and they may be unable to manage our expansion successfully and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have not entered into non-competition agreements. As our business is substantially dependent upon the directors, executive officers and consultants, the lack of non-competition agreements poses a significant risk to us in the event such persons were to resign or be terminated from such positions. Under such circumstances, such persons may provide confidential information and key contacts to our competitors and we may have difficulties in preventing the disclosure of such information. Such disclosure would have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our directors/senior management are engaged in other businesses. Potential conflicts of interest and other obligations of management could interfere with corporate operations. Most of our directors and officers are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the search for additional business opportunities on behalf of other entities, and situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with us. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of applicable regulations and legislation. Some of our directors and officers are or may become directors or officers of other entities engaged in other business ventures. In order to avoid the possible conflict of interest which may arise between the directors and officers’ duties to us and their duties to the other entities they are involved, our directors and officers have been advised as follows by us: participation in other business ventures offered to the directors or officers should be allocated between the various entities and on the basis of prudent business judgment and the relative financial abilities and needs of such entities to participate; no commissions or other extraordinary consideration will be paid to such directors and officers; and business opportunities formulated by or through other entities in which the directors and officers are involved should not be offered to us except on the same or better terms than the basis on which they are offered to third party participants. Our directors and officers are, or may become, involved in other business activities. As a result of their other business endeavors, our directors and officers may not be able to devote sufficient time to our business affairs, which may negatively affect its ability to conduct ongoing operations and to generate revenues. In addition, our management of may be periodically interrupted or delayed as a result of its officers’ other business interests. 18 Title to our properties may be subject to other claims, which could affect our property rights and claims. There are risks that title to our properties may be challenged or impugned. Our material property is located in Wyoming and may be subject to prior unrecorded agreements or transfers or native land claims and title may be affected by undetected defects. There may be valid challenges to the title of our properties which, if successful, could impair development and/or operations. This is particularly the case in respect of those portions of our properties in which we hold our interest solely through a lease with the claim holders, as such interest is substantially based on contract and has been subject to a number of assignments (as opposed to a direct interest in the property). Several of the mineral rights to our properties consist of "unpatented" mining claims created and maintained in accordance with the U.S. General Mining Law. Unpatented mining claims are unique property interests, and are generally considered to be subject to greater title risk than other real property interests because the validity of unpatented mining claims is often uncertain. This uncertainty arises, in part, out of the complex federal and state laws and regulations under the U.S. General Mining Law. Also, unpatented mining claims are always subject to possible challenges by third parties or validity contests by the federal government. The validity of an unpatented mining or mill site claim, in terms of both its location and its maintenance, is dependent on strict compliance with a complex body of U.S. federal and state statutory and decisional law. In addition, there are few public records that definitively determine the issues of validity and ownership of unpatented mining claims. Should the federal government impose a royalty or additional tax burdens on the properties that lie within public lands, the resulting mining operations could be seriously impacted, depending upon the type and amount of the burden U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We are incorporated in the province of British Columbia under the British Columbia Business Corporations Act. Many of our directors are residents of Canada, and a substantial portion of their assets are located outside of the United States, predominately in Canada. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. holders of our common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States upon judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States, or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or such persons predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the United States. Risk Related to Our Securities We do not currently intend to pay cash dividends. We have not declared any dividends since incorporation and do not anticipate that we will do so in the foreseeable future. Our present policy is to retain all available funds for use in our operations and the expansion of our business. Payment of future cash dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Accordingly, investors will only see a return on their investment if the value of our securities appreciates. Dilution through outstanding common share options could adversely affect our shareholders. Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees and consultants, we have granted to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options to purchase common shares as non-cash incentives. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other shareholders may be diluted. As of the date of this Form 10-K, there are 3,526,500 share purchase options outstanding, which, if exercised, would result in an additional 3,526,500 common shares being issued and outstanding. 19 Price volatility of our publicly traded securities could adversely affect investor’s portfolios. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States and Canada have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market prices of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. There can be no assurance that continual fluctuations in price will not occur. It may be anticipated that any quoted market for the common shares will be subject to market trends and conditions generally, notwithstanding any potential success of the Company in creating revenues, cash flows or earnings. The price of our common shares have been subject to price and volume volatility in the past and will likely continue to be subject to such volatility in the future. We likely constituted a "passive foreign investment company" during the tax year ended June 30, 2011, which will likely have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences for U.S. shareholders. U.S. investors in our common shares should be aware that we believe that we were classified as a PFIC during the tax year ended June 30, 2011, and based on current business plans and financial expectations, we expect that we will be a PFIC for the current tax year. If we are a PFIC for any year during a U.S. shareholder’s holding period, then such U.S. shareholder generally will be required to treat any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, or any so-called “excess distribution” received on its common shares, as ordinary income, and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such gain or distributions, unless the shareholder makes a timely and effective "qualified electing fund" election (“QEF Election”) or a "mark-to-market" election with respect to the common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes a QEF Election generally must report on a current basis its share of our net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which we are a PFIC, whether or not we distribute any amounts to our shareholders. However, U.S. shareholders should be aware that there can be no assurance that we will satisfy record keeping requirements that apply to a qualified electing fund, or that we will supply U.S. shareholders with information that such U.S. shareholders require to report under the QEF Election rules, in the event that we are a PFIC and a U.S. shareholder wishes to make a QEF Election. Thus, U.S. shareholders may not be able to make a QEF Election with respect to their common shares. A U.S. shareholder who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s basis therein. Each U.S. shareholder should consult its own tax advisor regarding the U.S. federal, U.S. federal alternative minimum, U.S. federal estate and gift, U.S. state and local, and foreign tax consequences of the PFIC rules and the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of common shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We do not have any unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 20 