Risk Factors Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business in general. Other risks relate principally to the securities market and to ownership of our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events described in this section could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and ability to pay distributions on, and the trading price of our common stock. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may lead to volatile changes in charter rates, and significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels, which may adversely affect our earnings. Historically, the tanker industry has been cyclical, experiencing volatility in profitability due to changes in the supply of and demand for tanker capacity and changes in the supply of and demand for oil and oil products. The cyclical nature of the tanker industry may cause significant increases or decreases in the revenues we earn from our vessels and may also cause significant increases or decreases in the value of our vessels. If the tanker market is depressed, our earnings may decrease. Our exposure to industry business cycles is more acute because of our exposure to the spot tanker market, which is more volatile than the tanker industry generally. Our ability to operate profitably in the spot market and to recharter our other vessels upon the expiration or termination of their charters will depend upon, among other factors, economic conditions in the tanker market. The factors affecting the supply of and demand for tankers are outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. Key factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: • environmental concerns and regulations; • the number of newbuilding deliveries; 7 Table of Contents • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • conversion of tankers to other uses; and • the number of vessels that are out of service. Key factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: • supply of oil and oil products; • demand for oil and oil products; • regional availability of refining capacity; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • the distance oil and oil products are to be moved by sea; and • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns. Historically, the tanker markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and factors that can affect the price and the supply of, and demand for, tanker capacity. Changes in demand for transportation of oil over longer distances and in the supply of tankers to carry that oil may materially affect our revenues, profitability and cash flows. A continuation of the recent significant declines in oil prices may adversely affect our growth prospects and results of operations. Global crude oil prices have significantly declined since mid-2014. A continuation of lower oil prices or a further decline in oil prices may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, as a result of, among other things: • a reduction in exploration for or development of new oil fields or energy projects, or the delay or cancelation of existing projects as energy companies lower their capital expenditures budgets, which may reduce our growth opportunities; • potential lower demand for tankers, which may reduce available charter rates and revenue to us upon chartering or rechartering of our vessels; • customers failing to extend or renew contracts upon expiration; • the inability or refusal of customers to make charter payments to us due to financial constraints or otherwise; or • declines in vessel values, which may result in losses to us upon vessel sales or impairment charges against our earnings. Changes in the oil markets could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Demand for our vessels and services in transporting oil depends upon world and regional oil markets. Any decrease in shipments of crude oil in those markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, those markets have been volatile as a result of the many conditions and events that affect the price, production and transport of oil, including competition from alternative energy sources. Past slowdowns of the U.S. and world economies have resulted in reduced consumption of oil products and decreased demand for our vessels and services, which reduced vessel earnings. Additional slowdowns could have similar effects on our operating results and may limit our ability to expand our fleet. Changes in the spot tanker market may result in significant fluctuations in the utilization of our vessels and our profitability. During 2014 and 2013, we derived approximately 65.1% and 46.3%, respectively, of our net revenues from vessels operating, directly or by means of participation in pooling agreements (which includes vessels operating under charters with an initial term of less than one year). Due to our involvement in the spot-charter market, declining spot rates in a given period generally will result in corresponding declines in our operating results for that period. The spot-charter market is highly volatile and fluctuates based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the spot-charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. Future spot rates may not be sufficient to enable our vessels trading in the spot tanker market to operate profitably or to provide sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. The operation of a significant number of our tankers in the Gemini Suezmax Pool, Teekay Aframax Pools, Taurus Tankers LR2 Pool and Norient Product Pool could limit our earnings. As of December 31, 2014, ten of our Suezmax tankers, three of our owned and seven of our time-chartered in Aframax tankers, and three of our owned and four of our time-chartered in LR2 product tankers operated in, and generated revenues to us through participation in, a Suezmax tanker pooling arrangement (the Gemini Suezmax Pool), two Aframax tanker revenue sharing arrangements (the Teekay Aframax Pools), and an LR2 product tanker pooling arrangement (the Taurus Tankers LR2 Pool), respectively. The Teekay Aframax Pools and Taurus Tankers LR2 Pool are each managed by Teekay Tanker Operations Ltd. (or TTOL), in which Teekay Corporation and we each have a 50% interest, while the Gemini Suezmax Pool is owned 50% by TTOL. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, two of our MR product tankers operated in the Norient Product Pool, which is managed by a third party unaffiliated with Teekay Corporation. Pooling arrangements are designed to spread the costs and risks associated with commercial management of vessels and to share the net revenues earned by all of the vessels in the pool. Although the net revenues are apportioned based on the actual earning days each vessel is available and the relative 8 Table of Contents performance capabilities of each vessel, a pool may include vessels that do not perform as well in actual operation as our vessels. As a result, our share of the net pool revenues may be less than what we could earn operating our vessels independently. Certain vessels of Tanker Investments Ltd. (TIL), in which we have an ownership interest, also participate in some of these pooling arrangements. The removal of any vessels from the Gemini Suezmax Pool, Teekay Aframax Pools, Taurus Tankers LR2 Pool, Norient Product Pool or any other pooling arrangement in which we participate may adversely affect our operating results. Participants in the Gemini Suezmax Pool, including third parties, have each agreed to include in the pool certain qualifying Suezmax-class crude tankers of the pool participants and their respective affiliates, including us, that operate in the spot market or pursuant to time charters of less than one year. We and Teekay Corporation have each committed to include in the Teekay Aframax Pools all of our and its respective Aframax-class crude tankers that are employed in the spot market or operate pursuant to time charters of less than 90 days. Participants in the Taurus Tankers LR2 Pool, including third parties, have each agreed to include in the pool certain qualifying LR2 product tankers of the pool participants and their respective affiliates, including us, that operate in the spot market or pursuant to time charters of less than one year. Participants in the Norient Product Pool, including third parties, have each agreed to include in that pool certain qualifying MR product tankers of the pool participants and their respective affiliates, including us, that operate in the spot market or pursuant to time charters of less than one year. If we or any participant remove vessels from any pooling arrangement in which we participate to operate under longer-term time charters, the benefits to us of the pooling arrangements could diminish. In addition, the European Union is in the process of substantially reforming the way it regulates traditional agreements for maritime services from an antitrust perspective. These changes may impose new restrictions on the way pools are operated or may prohibit pooling arrangements altogether. If for any reason our vessels, Teekay Corporation’s vessels, or any third party vessels cease to participate in any pooling arrangement in which we participate, or if the pooling arrangements are significantly restricted, we may not achieve the benefits intended by pool participation and our results of operations could be harmed. Our failure to renew or replace fixed-rate charters could cause us to trade the related vessels in the spot market, which could adversely affect our operating results and make them more volatile. As of December 31, 2014, a total of eight of our tankers and one jointly-owned vessel operated under fixed-rate time-charter contracts, five of which are scheduled to expire in 2015, three in 2016, and one in 2018, respectively. If upon their scheduled expiration or any early termination we are unable to renew or replace fixed-rate charters on favorable terms, if at all, or if we choose not to renew or replace these fixed-rate charters, we may employ the vessels in the volatile spot market. Increasing our exposure to the spot market, particularly during periods of unfavorable market conditions, could harm our results of operations and make them more volatile. Our vessels operate in the highly competitive international tanker market. The operation of oil tankers and transportation of crude oil and refined petroleum products are extremely competitive businesses. Competition arises primarily from other tanker owners, including major oil companies and independent tanker companies, some of which have substantially greater financial strength and capital than do we or than does Teekay Corporation. Competition for the transportation of oil and oil products can be intense and depends on price and the location, size, age, condition of the tanker and the acceptability of the tanker and its operators to the charterers. Our competitive position may erode over time. Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our tankers operate in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in tanker demand and, therefore, in spot-charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our results of operations. Tanker markets are typically stronger in the winter months as a result of increased oil consumption in the northern hemisphere but weaker in the summer months as a result of lower oil consumption in the northern hemisphere and refinery maintenance. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns during the winter months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling, which historically has increased oil price volatility and oil trading activities in the winter months. As a result, revenues generated by the tankers in our fleet have historically been weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and stronger in our fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. Future economic downturns, including disruptions in the global credit markets, could adversely affect our ability to grow. Economic downturns and financial crises in the global markets could produce illiquidity in the capital markets, market volatility, heightened exposure to interest rate and credit risks, and reduced access to capital markets. If global financial markets and economic conditions significantly deteriorate in the future, we may face restricted access to the capital markets or bank lending, which may make it more difficult and costly to fund future growth. Decreased access to such resources could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic downturns may affect our customers’ ability to charter our vessels and pay for our services and may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Economic downturns in the global financial markets may lead to a decline in our customers’ operations or ability to pay for our services, which could result in decreased demand for our vessels and services. Our customers’ inability to pay could also result in their default on our current contracts and charters. A decline in the amount of services requested by our customers or their default on our contracts with them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in fluctuations in our operating results. Our primary economic environment is the international shipping market, which utilizes the U.S. Dollar as its functional currency. Consequently, virtually all of our revenues and the majority of our expenses are in U.S. Dollars. However, we incur certain voyage expenses, vessel operating expenses, and general and administrative expenses in foreign currencies, the most significant of which are the Euro, Canadian Dollar and British Pound. This partial mismatch in revenues and expenses could lead to fluctuations in our net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to other currencies. 9 Table of Contents We may not be able to grow or to manage our growth effectively. One of our principal strategies is to continue to grow by expanding our operations and adding vessels to our fleet. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include our ability to: • identify suitable tankers or shipping companies for acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrate successfully any acquired tankers or businesses with our existing operations; and • obtain required financing for our existing and any new operations. In addition, competition from other companies, many of which have significantly greater financial resources than do we or than does Teekay Corporation, may reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Our failure to effectively identify, purchase, develop and integrate any tankers or businesses could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not realize expected benefits from acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our financial condition and performance. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable at or after the time of acquisition and may not generate cash flows sufficient to justify the investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to realize anticipated benefits, such as new customer relationships, cost-savings or cash flow enhancements; • be unable to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with any vessels or businesses acquired; or • incur other significant charges, such as impairment of intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges. Unlike newbuildings, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition. While we generally inspect existing vessels prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of a vessel’s condition as we would possess if it had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could decrease our cash flows and liquidity, and harm our financial condition and performance. Over time, the value of our vessels may decline, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing or our operating results. Vessel values for oil tankers can fluctuate substantially over time due to a number of different factors. Vessel values may decline from existing levels. If the operation of a tanker is not profitable, or if we cannot re-deploy a chartered tanker at attractive rates upon charter termination, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. Our inability to dispose of the vessel at a fair market value or the disposition of the vessel at a fair market value that is lower than its book value could result in a loss on its sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, three of our credit facilities contain loan-to-value financial covenants tied to the value of the vessel that collateralizes these credit facilities. A significant decline in the market value of these tankers may require us to pledge additional collateral to avoid a default under these credit facilities. We are required to maintain vessel value to outstanding loan principal balance ratios ranging from 105%-130%. At December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with these requirements. In addition, if we determine at any time that a vessel’s future useful life and earnings require us to impair its value on our financial statements, we may need to recognize a significant charge against our earnings. Vessel values had declined significantly in prior years, which contributed to significant vessel and goodwill impairment charges against our earnings. Delays in deliveries of any newbuildings could harm our operating results and financial condition. The delivery of any newbuilding that we may order could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues related to the vessel. The completion and delivery of newbuildings could be delayed because of: • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances at the shipyard; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipbuilder; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • political or economic disturbances; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake, tsunami or fire; 10 Table of Contents • requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; • an inability to finance the construction of the vessels; or • an inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals. If delivery of a vessel is significantly delayed, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to expand the size of our fleet. We generally will be required to make significant installment payments for any acquisitions of newbuilding vessels prior to their delivery and generation of revenue. Depending on whether we finance our expenditures through cash from operations or by issuing debt or equity securities, our financial leverage could increase or our stockholders’ ownership interest in us could be diluted. We will be required to make substantial capital expenditures to increase the size of our fleet. We intend to expand our fleet by acquiring tankers from third parties or from Teekay Corporation. Our acquisitions may also include newbuildings. We generally will be required to make installment payments on any newbuildings prior to their delivery. We typically pay 10% to 20% of the purchase price of a tanker upon signing the purchase contract, even though delivery of the completed vessel does not occur until much later (approximately two to three years from the order). To fund expansion capital expenditures, we may be required to use cash balances or cash from operations, incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain funds for capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in obtaining the necessary funds, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. In addition, issuing additional equity securities may result in significant stockholder ownership dilution and would increase the aggregate amount of cash required to pay quarterly dividends. An increase in operating costs could adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. We have entered into a long-term management agreement (or the Management Agreement) with Teekay Tankers Management Services Ltd. (our Manager), a subsidiary of Teekay Corporation. Under the Management Agreement, we must reimburse our Manager for vessel operating expenses (including crewing, repairs and maintenance, insurance, stores, lube oils and communication expenses). These expenses depend upon a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our or our Manager’s control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing and may increase in the future. Increases in any of these costs would decrease our earnings and adversely affect our cash flows and financial condition. Financing agreements containing operating and financial restrictions may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit facilities, term loans and in any of our future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to pursue and expand our business activities. For example, these financing arrangements may restrict our ability to: • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • pay dividends; • grant liens on our assets; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain investments; and • enter into a new line of business. Our ability to comply with covenants and restrictions contained in debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, we may fail to comply with these covenants. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in the financing agreements, our obligations may become immediately due and payable, and the lenders’ commitment, if any, to make further loans may terminate. A default under one financing agreement could also result in foreclosure on any of our vessels and other assets securing related loans, or trigger a default under other financing agreements. Our substantial debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing, pursuing other business opportunities and paying dividends. As of December 31, 2014, our long-term debt was approximately $656.1 million and an additional $126.2 million was available to us under our revolving credit facilities. We will continue to have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our revolving credit facilities. Our level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: 11 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, business opportunities and dividends to our stockholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our industry or the economy generally; and • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt depends upon, among other things, our financial and operating performance, which is affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our vessels or result from our operations. The operation of oil tankers is inherently risky. Although we carry hull and machinery (marine and war risks) and protection and indemnity insurance, all risks may not be adequately insured against, and any particular claim may not be paid. In addition, we do not carry insurance on our vessels covering the loss of revenues resulting from vessel off-hire time based on its cost compared to our off-hire experience. Any significant off-hire time of our vessels could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims may be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. Certain of our insurance coverage is maintained through mutual protection and indemnity associations, and as a member of such associations we may be required to make additional payments over and above budgeted premiums if member claims exceed association reserves. Our Manager may be unable to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. For example, more stringent environmental regulations have led to increased costs for, and in the future may result in the lack of availability of, insurance against risks of environmental damage or pollution. A catastrophic oil spill, marine disasters or natural disasters could exceed the insurance coverage, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition. In addition, the insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain actions, such as vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may also make certain types of insurance more difficult to obtain. In addition, the insurance that may be available may be significantly more expensive than existing coverage. Terrorist attacks, piracy, increased hostilities or war could lead to further economic instability, increased costs and disruption of business. Terrorist attacks, piracy and the current conflicts in the Middle East, and other current and future conflicts, may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, and ability to raise capital and fund future growth. Continuing hostilities in the Middle East may lead to additional armed conflicts or to further acts of terrorism and civil disturbance in the United States or elsewhere, which may contribute further to economic instability and disruption of oil production and distribution, which could result in reduced demand for our services. In addition, oil facilities, shipyards, vessels, pipelines, oil fields or other infrastructure could be targets of future terrorist attacks and our vessels could be targets of pirates or hijackers. Any such attacks could lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war, piracy, hijacking or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil to be shipped by us could entitle customers to terminate the charters which would harm our cash flow and business. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Indian Ocean off the coast of Somalia. While there continue to be significant numbers of piracy incidents in the Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean, recently there have been increases in the frequency and severity of piracy incidents off the coast of West Africa. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being named on the Joint War Committee Listed Areas, war risk insurance premiums payable for such coverage may increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial operations outside the United States expose us to political, governmental and economic instability, which could harm our operations. Because our operations are primarily conducted outside of the United States, they may be affected by economic, political and governmental conditions in the countries where we engage in business or where our vessels are registered. Any disruption caused by these factors could harm our business, including by reducing the levels of oil exploration, development and production activities in these areas. We derive some of our revenues from shipping oil from politically unstable regions. Conflicts in these regions have included attacks on ships and other efforts to disrupt shipping. Hostilities or other political instability in regions where we operate or where we may operate could have a material adverse effect on the growth of our business, results of operations and financial condition and ability to make cash distributions. In addition, tariffs, trade embargoes and other economic sanctions by the United States or other countries to which we trade may limit trading activities with those 12 Table of Contents countries, which could also harm our business and ability to make cash distributions. Finally, a government could requisition one or more of our vessels, which is most likely during war or national emergency. Any such requisition would cause a loss of the vessel and could harm our cash flows and financial results. Past port calls by our vessels, or third-party vessels from which we derived pooling revenues, to countries that are subject to sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union may impact investors’ decisions to invest in our securities. The United States government has imposed sanctions on Iran, Syria and Sudan. The European Union (or EU) has also imposed sanctions on trade with Iran. In the past, conventional oil tankers owned or chartered-in by us, or third-party vessels participating in commercial pooling arrangements from which we derive revenue, made limited port calls to those countries for the loading and discharging of oil products. Those port calls did not violate U.S. or EU sanctions at the time and we intend to maintain our compliance with all U.S. and EU sanctions. In addition, we have no future contracted loadings or discharges in any of those countries and intend not to enter into voyage charter contracts for the transport of oil or gas to or from Iran, Syria or Sudan. We believe that our compliance with these sanctions and our lack of any future port calls to those countries does not and will not adversely impact our revenues, because port calls to these countries have never accounted for any material amount of our revenues. However, some investors might decide not to invest in us simply because we have previously called on, or through our participation in pooling arrangements have previously received revenue from calls on, ports in these sanctioned countries. Any such investor reaction could adversely affect the market for our common shares. Marine transportation is inherently risky, and an incident involving significant loss of product or environmental contamination by any of our vessels could harm our reputation and business. Vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather or natural disasters; • mechanical or electrical failures; • grounding, capsizing, fire, explosions and collisions; • piracy; • human error; and • war and terrorism. An accident involving any of our vessels could result in any of the following: • death or injury to persons, loss of property or damage to the environment and natural resources; • delays in the delivery of cargo; • loss of revenues from charters; • liabilities or costs to recover any spilled oil or other petroleum products and to restore the eco-system affected by the spill; • governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business; • higher insurance rates; and • damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The shipping industry is subject to substantial environmental and other regulations, which may significantly limit operations and increase expenses. Our operations are affected by extensive and changing international, national and local environmental protection laws, regulations, treaties and conventions in force in international waters, the jurisdictional waters of the countries in which our vessels operate, as well as the countries of our vessels’ registration, including those governing oil spills, discharges to air and water, and the handling and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes. Many of these requirements are designed to reduce the risk of oil spills and other pollution. In addition, we believe that the heightened environmental, quality and security concerns of insurance underwriters, regulators and charterers will lead to additional regulatory requirements, including enhanced risk assessment and security requirements and greater inspection and safety requirements on vessels. We expect to incur substantial expenses in complying with these laws and regulations, including expenses for vessel modifications and changes in operating procedures. These requirements may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in, certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of or exposure to hazardous materials associated with our operations. In addition, failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations, including, in certain instances, seizure or detention of our vessels. For further information about regulations affecting our business and related requirements on us, please read Item 4 – Information on the Company: B. Business Overview—Regulations. 13 Table of Contents Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil industry relating to climate change may also adversely affect demand for our services. Although we do not expect that demand for oil will lessen dramatically over the short-term, in the long-term climate change may reduce the demand for oil or increased regulation of greenhouse gases may create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Maritime claimants could arrest, or port authorities could detain, our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow from these vessels. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest or attachment lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet or the pooling arrangements in which we operate for claims relating to another of our ships. In addition, port authorities may seek to detain our vessels in port, which could adversely affect our operating results or relationships with customers. We depend on Teekay Corporation to assist us in operating our business and competing in our markets, and our business will be harmed if Teekay Corporation fails to assist us. Pursuant to the terms of the Management Agreement, our Manager provides to us commercial, technical, administrative and strategic services, including vessel maintenance, crewing, purchasing, shipyard supervision, insurance and financial services. Our operational success and ability to execute our growth strategy depend significantly upon the satisfactory performance of these services by our Manager. Our business will be harmed if our Manager fails to perform these services satisfactorily, if it stops providing these services to us or if it terminates the Management Agreement, as it is entitled to do under certain circumstances. The circumstances under which we are able to terminate the Management Agreement are limited and do not include mere dissatisfaction with our Manager’s performance. In addition, upon any termination of the Management Agreement, we may lose our ability to benefit from economies of scale in purchasing supplies and other advantages that we believe our relationship with Teekay Corporation provides. Furthermore, the profitable operation of our tankers that participate in tanker pooling arrangements depends largely on the efforts of the pool managers, Teekay Corporation’s participation in the pooling arrangements and its reputation and relationships in the shipping industry. Under the pooling arrangements, the earnings and voyage expenses of all of the vessels in pools are aggregated, or pooled, and divided according to an agreed formula. If Teekay Corporation suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships, it may harm our ability to: • maximize revenues of our tankers included in the pooling arrangements; • acquire new tankers or obtain new time charters; • renew existing time charters upon their expiration; • successfully interact with shipyards during periods of shipyard construction constraints; • obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; or • maintain satisfactory relationships with suppliers and other third parties. If our ability to do any of the things described above is impaired, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Teekay Corporation and its affiliates may engage in competition with us. In our articles of incorporation and in a contribution, conveyance and assumption agreement we entered into with Teekay Corporation in connection with our initial public offering, we have renounced business opportunities that may be attractive to both Teekay Corporation and us in favor of Teekay Corporation, which may strengthen Teekay Corporation’s ability to compete with us. The pooling arrangements we participate in are managed, in whole or in part, by Teekay Corporation subsidiaries. When operated in a pool, chartering decisions are made by the pool manager and vessel earnings are based on a formula designed to allocate the pool’s earnings to vessel owners based on actual on-hire performance of the vessels they contributed, and attributes of the vessels, rather than amounts actually earned by those vessels. If we, Teekay Corporation or its affiliates terminate the pooling arrangements in which we participate pursuant to the terms thereof or if vessels of Teekay Corporation or us cease operating in the pooling arrangements for any other reason, our tankers may compete with other vessels owned or operated by Teekay Corporation to provide crude oil transportation services. In addition, we may compete with Teekay Corporation in seeking to charter any vessels in our fleet under fixed-rate time charters, whether upon the expiration or early termination of existing time charters or otherwise. 14 Table of Contents During 2012, we acquired four Suezmax tankers, three Aframax tankers, three LR2 product tankers and three MR product tankers from Teekay Corporation (or the 2012 Acquired Business). In connection with the 2012 Acquired Business transaction, Teekay Corporation entered into a non-competition agreement with us in June 2012 that (a) limits Teekay Corporation’s ability to expand its direct or indirect fleet of conventional and product tankers and (b) provides us a right of first refusal to acquire existing or newbuilding conventional and product tankers pursuant to opportunities Teekay Corporation develops. The non-competition agreement expires on June 15, 2015. Teekay Corporation may be unable to attract and retain qualified, skilled employees or crew necessary to operate our business. Our success depends in large part on Teekay Corporation’s ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. In crewing our vessels, we require technically skilled employees with specialized training who can perform physically demanding work. Competition to attract and retain qualified crew members is intense. If crew costs increase and we are not able to increase our rates to compensate for any such increases, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any inability we experience in the future to hire, train and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could impair our ability to manage, maintain and grow our business. The superior voting rights of our Class B common stock held by Teekay Corporation limit our Class A common stockholders’ ability to control or influence corporate matters. Our Class B common stock has five votes per share and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. However, the voting power of the Class B common stock is limited such that the aggregate voting power of all shares of outstanding Class B common stock can at no time exceed 49% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock, voting together as a single class. As of the date of this Annual Report, Teekay Corporation indirectly owns shares of Class A and Class B common stock representing a majority of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Through its ownership of our Class B common stock and of our Manager and other entities that provide services to us, Teekay Corporation has substantial control and influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions. In addition, because of this dual-class common stock structure, Teekay Corporation will continue to be able to control matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even though it owns significantly less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. This voting control limits our Class A common stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that our Class A common stockholders do not view as beneficial. Our Manager has rights to terminate the Management Agreement and, under certain circumstances, could receive substantial sums in connection with such termination; however, even if our Board of Directors or our stockholders are dissatisfied with our Manager, there are limited circumstances under which we can terminate the Management Agreement. Our Management Agreement has an initial term through December 31, 2022 and will automatically renew for subsequent five-year terms provided that certain conditions are met. Our Manager has the right to terminate the Management Agreement with 12 months’ notice. Our Manager also has the right to terminate the Management Agreement after a dispute resolution process if we have materially breached the Management Agreement. The Management Agreement will terminate upon the sale of all or substantially all of our assets to a third party, our liquidation or after any change of control of our company occurs. If the Management Agreement is terminated as a result of an asset sale, our liquidation or change of control, then our Manager may be paid a termination fee. Any such payment could be substantial. In addition, our rights to terminate the Management Agreement are limited. Even if we are not satisfied with the Manager’s efforts in managing our business, unless our Manager materially breaches the agreement or experiences certain bankruptcy or change of control events, we have only a limited right to terminate the agreement after 10 years and may not be able to terminate the agreement until the end of the initial 15-year term. If we elect to terminate the Management Agreement at either of these points or at the end of any subsequent renewal term, our Manager will receive a termination fee, which may be substantial. Our Manager could receive a performance fee which is contingent on our results of operations and financial condition. If Gross Cash Available for Distribution for a given fiscal year exceeds $3.20 per share of our common stock (subject to adjustment for stock dividends, splits, combinations and similar events, and based on the weighted-average number of shares outstanding for the year) (or the Incentive Threshold), our Manager generally will be entitled to payment of a performance fee equal to 20% of all Gross Cash Available for Distribution for such year in excess of the Incentive Threshold. Although the performance fee is payable on an annual basis, we accrue any amounts expected to be payable in respect of the performance fee on a quarterly basis. Gross Cash Available for Distribution represents the distributable cash flows that we generate from operations. Many seafaring employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and the failure to renew those agreements or any future labor agreements may disrupt operations and adversely affect our cash flows. A significant portion of Teekay Corporation’s seafarers that crew our vessels are employed under collective bargaining agreements. Teekay Corporation may become subject to additional labor agreements in the future. Teekay Corporation may suffer labor disruptions if relationships deteriorate with the seafarers or the unions that represent them. The collective bargaining agreements may not prevent labor disruptions, particularly when the agreements are being renegotiated. Salaries are typically renegotiated annually or biannually for seafarers. Although these negotiations have not caused labor disruptions in the past, any labor disruptions could harm our operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our executive officers and directors and the executive officers and directors of our Manager have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary and contractual duties, which may permit them to favor interests of other Teekay Corporation affiliates above our interests and those of our Class A common stockholders. Conflicts of interest may arise between Teekay Corporation, our Manager and their affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our stockholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, Teekay Corporation or our Manager may favor their own interests and the interests of their affiliates over our interests and those of our stockholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: 15 Table of Contents • our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and one of our directors also serve as executive officers or directors of Teekay Corporation or our Manager, and we have limited their fiduciary duties regarding corporate opportunities that may be attractive to both Teekay Corporation and us; • our Manager advises our Board of Directors about the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common stock and cash reserves, each of which can affect our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders and the amount of the performance fee payable to our Manager under the Management Agreement; • our executive officers and those of our Manager do not spend all of their time on matters related to our business; and • our Manager will advise us of costs incurred by it and its affiliates that it believes are reimbursable by us. The fiduciary duties of certain of our officers and directors may conflict with their duties as officers or directors of Teekay Corporation and its affiliates. Our officers and directors have fiduciary duties to manage our business in a manner beneficial to us and our stockholders. However, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer also serve as executive officers of Teekay Corporation or our Manager, and one of our non-independent directors also serves as an executive officer of Teekay Corporation and director of our Manager, and, as a result, have fiduciary duties to manage the business of Teekay Corporation and its affiliates in a manner beneficial to such entities and their stockholders or partners, as the case may be. Consequently, these officers and directors may encounter situations in which their fiduciary obligations to Teekay Corporation or our Manager or their affiliates, on the one hand, and us, on the other hand, are in conflict. The resolution of these conflicts may not always be in our best interest or that of our stockholders. Tax Risks In addition to the following risk factors, you should read “Item 4E. Taxation of the Company” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” and “—Non-United States Tax Considerations” for a more complete discussion of the expected material U.S. federal and non-U.S. income tax considerations relating to us and the ownership and disposition of our Class A common stock. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a “passive foreign investment company,” which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A non-U.S. entity treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes will be treated as a “passive foreign investment company” (or PFIC) for such purposes in any taxable year for which either (a) at least 75% of its gross income consists of “passive income,” or (b) at least 50% of the average value of the entity’s assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties (other than rents and royalties that are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business). By contrast, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute “passive income.” There are legal uncertainties involved in determining whether the income derived from our time-chartering activities constitutes rental income or income derived from the performance of services, including the decision in Tidewater Inc. v. United States, 565 F.3d 299 (5th Cir. 2009), which held that income derived from certain time-chartering activities should be treated as rental income rather than services income for purposes of a foreign sales corporation provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (or the Code). However, the Internal Revenue Service (or IRS) stated in an Action on Decision (AOD 2010-01) that it disagrees with, and will not acquiesce to, the way that the rental versus services framework was applied to the facts in the Tidewater decision, and in its discussion stated that the time charters at issue in Tidewater would be treated as producing services income for PFIC purposes. The IRS’s statement with respect to Tidewater cannot be relied upon or otherwise cited as precedent by taxpayers. Consequently, in the absence of any binding legal authority specifically relating to the statutory provisions governing PFICs, there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court would not follow the Tidewater decision in interpreting the PFIC provisions of the Code. Nevertheless, based on the composition of our assets and operations (and those of our subsidiaries), we intend to take the position that we are not now and have never been a PFIC. No assurance can be given, however, that this position would be sustained by a court if contested by the IRS, or that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in our assets, income or operations. If the IRS were to determine that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. Holder (as defined below under “Item 10 – Additional Information – Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”) held stock, such U.S. Holder would face adverse tax consequences. For a more comprehensive discussion regarding our status as a PFIC and the tax consequences to U.S. Holders if we are treated as a PFIC, please read “Item 10: Additional Information-Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations-United States Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders-Consequences of Possible PFIC Classification.” We may be subject to taxes, which reduces our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. We or some of our subsidiaries may be subject to tax in the jurisdictions in which we or our subsidiaries are organized own assets or have operations, which reduces the amount of our cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligation in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us or our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted further reducing the cash available for distribution. In addition, changes in our operations or ownership could result in additional tax being imposed on us or on our subsidiaries in jurisdictions in which operations are conducted. For example, if Teekay Tankers Ltd. was not able to satisfy the requirements of the exemption from U.S. taxation under Section 883 of the Code, our U.S. source income would become subject to taxation under Section 887 of the Code. The amount of such tax would depend upon the amount of income we earn from voyages into or out of the United States, which is not within our complete control. 16 Table of Contents 