Item 1A. Risk Factors Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors, in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in this Annual Report as well as our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Need for Additional Capital We have incurred significant losses since our inception and anticipate that we will continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. We are a development stage company with limited operating history. To date, we have focused primarily on developing our lead product candidate, FX006. We have two additional product candidates, FX007 and FX005. All of our product candidates will require substantial additional development time and resources before we would be able to apply for or receive regulatory approvals and begin generating revenue from product sales. We have incurred significant net losses in each year since our inception, including net losses of $18.2 million, $15.0 million and $11.4 million for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $66.2 million. We have devoted most of our financial resources to product development, including our non-clinical development activities and clinical trials. To date, we have financed our operations exclusively through the sale of equity securities and debt. The size of our future net losses will depend, in part, on the rate of future expenditures and our ability to generate revenue. To date, none of our product candidates have been commercialized, and if our product candidates are not successfully developed or commercialized, or if revenue is insufficient following marketing approval, we will not achieve profitability and our business may fail. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates in the United States, our revenue is also dependent upon the size of the markets outside of the United States, as well as our ability to obtain market approval and achieve commercial success. We expect to continue to incur substantial and increased expenses as we expand our development activities and advance our clinical programs, particularly with respect to our planned clinical development for FX006. We also expect an increase in our expenses associated with creating additional infrastructure to support operations as a public company. As a result of the foregoing, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future. We have never generated any revenue and may never be profitable. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability depends on our ability, alone or with collaborators, to successfully complete the development of, obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for, and commercialize our product candidates. We do not anticipate generating revenue from sales of our product candidates for the foreseeable future, if ever. Our ability to generate future revenue from product sales depends heavily on our success in: • completing clinical development of FX006, as well as advancing clinical development of our other product candidates; • obtaining regulatory approval for FX006 as well as our other product candidates; and • launching and commercializing any product candidates for which we receive regulatory approval, either by building our own targeted sales force or by collaborating with third parties. 35 Table of Contents Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the timing or amount of increased expenses, when, or if, we will begin to generate revenue from product sales, or when, or if, we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. In addition, our expenses could increase beyond expectations if we are required by the FDA to perform studies in addition to those that we currently anticipate. Even if one or more of our product candidates is approved for commercial sale, to the extent we do not engage a third party collaborator, we anticipate incurring significant costs associated with commercializing any approved product candidate. Even if we are able to generate revenue from the sale of any approved products, we may not become profitable and may need to obtain additional funding to continue operations. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we would be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs. Developing pharmaceutical products, including conducting preclinical studies and clinical trials, is expensive. We expect our development expenses to substantially increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we advance our clinical programs, including our planned and future clinical trials for FX006. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $16.4 million and working capital of $11.6 million. On February 18, 2014 we completed the initial public offering of our common stock and received net proceeds of approximately $67.2 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us. Based upon our current operating plan, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will enable us to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements at least into late 2015, including through the completion of our on-going FX006 synovial fluid pharmacokinetic clinical trial and our planned FX006 confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial, which we expect to initiate in the second quarter of 2014, and our planned FX007 PoC clinical trial, which we expect to initiate in the second half of 2014, as well as the initiation of a planned repeat dose safety clinical trial for FX006 and potential Phase 3 clinical development. Regardless of our expectations as to how long our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will fund our operations, changing circumstances beyond our control may cause us to consume capital more rapidly than we currently anticipate. For example, our clinical trials may encounter technical, enrollment or other difficulties that could increase our development costs more than we expect. In any event, we will require additional capital prior to completing Phase 3 development of, filing for regulatory approval for, or commercializing, FX006 or any of our other product candidates. Attempting to secure additional financing may divert our management from our day-to-day activities, which may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when required or on acceptable terms, we may be required to: • significantly delay, scale back or discontinue the development or commercialization of our product candidates; • seek corporate partners for our product candidates at an earlier stage than otherwise would be desirable or on terms that are less favorable than might otherwise be available; • relinquish or license on unfavorable terms, our rights to technologies or product candidates that we otherwise would seek to develop or commercialize ourselves; or • significantly curtail, or cease, operations. 36 Table of Contents If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we will be prevented from pursuing development and commercialization efforts, which will have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects. We may sell additional equity or debt securities to fund our operations, which may result in dilution to our stockholders and impose restrictions on our business. In order to raise additional funds to support our operations, we may sell additional equity or debt securities, which could adversely impact our existing stockholders, as well as our business. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and dilution to all of our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire, sell or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Our credit and security agreement with MidCap Financial SBIC, LP, or MidCap, contains restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. We may be required to make a prepayment or repay the outstanding indebtedness earlier than we expect under our credit and security agreement if a prepayment event or an event of default occurs, including a material adverse change with respect to us, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In January 2013, we entered into a credit and security agreement with MidCap and drew down the full $5.0 million under the facility. The agreement contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: • incur or assume certain debt; • merge or consolidate or acquire all or substantially all of the capital stock or property of another entity; • enter into any transaction or series of related transactions that would be deemed to result in a change in control of us under the terms of the agreement; • change the nature of our business; • change our organizational structure or type; • amend, modify or waive any of our organizational documents; • license, transfer or dispose of certain assets; • grant certain types of liens on our assets; • make certain investments; • pay cash dividends; • enter into material transactions with affiliates; and • amend or waive provisions of material agreements in certain manners. The restrictive covenants of the agreement could cause us to be unable to pursue business opportunities that we or our stockholders may consider beneficial. 37 Table of Contents A breach of any of these covenants could result in an event of default under the agreement. An event of default will also occur if, among other things, a material adverse change in our business, operations or condition occurs, which could potentially include negative results in our planned clinical trials, or a material impairment of the prospect of our repayment of any portion of the amounts we owe under the agreement occurs. In the case of a continuing event of default under the agreement, MidCap could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable, proceed against the collateral in which we granted MidCap a security interest under the agreement, or otherwise exercise the rights of a secured creditor. Amounts outstanding under the agreement are secured by all of our existing and future assets, excluding intellectual property, which is subject to a negative pledge arrangement. We may not have enough available cash or be able to raise additional funds on satisfactory terms, if at all, through equity or debt financings to repay our indebtedness at the time any such repayment is required. In such an event, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or commercialization efforts or grant to others rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected as a result. Risks Related to Clinical Development and Regulatory Approval We are heavily dependent on the success of our lead product candidate FX006, which is in a later stage of development than our other product candidates. We cannot give any assurance that FX006 will successfully complete clinical development or receive regulatory approval, which is necessary before it can be commercialized. Our business and future success is substantially dependent on our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and successfully commercialize our lead product candidate FX006, for which we plan to initiate a confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial in the second quarter of 2014 and a planned repeat dose safety clinical trial in the second half of 2014. Any delay or setback in the development of any of our product candidates, but particularly FX006, could adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. Should our planned FX006 clinical development fail to be completed in a timely manner or at all, we may rely on our other product candidates, FX007 and FX005, which are at an earlier development stage and will require additional time and resources to obtain regulatory approval and proceed with commercialization. We cannot assure you that our planned clinical development for FX006 will be completed in a timely manner, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain approval for FX006 from the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. Clinical development is a lengthy and expensive process with an uncertain outcome, and results of earlier studies and trials may not be predictive of future trial results. Clinical failure can occur at any stage of clinical development. We have never conducted a pivotal clinical trial or submitted a NDA. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. Failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. The results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials of our product candidates may not be predictive of the results of subsequent clinical trials. In particular, the positive results generated in the completed FX006 Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial do not ensure that our planned confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial will demonstrate similar results. In our completed Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial, the 60 mg dose of FX006 unexpectedly showed inferior efficacy compared to the 40 mg dose. While we have investigated potential causes of this clinical outcome and believe we understand the basis for the performance of the 60 mg dose, we may not be correct. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that the underlying cause is unique to the 60 mg dose and will not 38 Table of Contents impact the doses we intend to study in our planned confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial, or will not otherwise result in regulatory delays or the need for additional studies prior to seeking or obtaining regulatory approval. Although we have successfully conducted non-clinical toxicology studies with repeat doses of FX006, all of our clinical trials to date have been with single doses of FX006. We intend to study FX006 in a separate repeat dose safety clinical trial, and it is possible that the FDA could impose restrictions on the initiation of the repeat dose study or that in the course of that study we could observe unexpected outcomes with the repeat doses of FX006 that would harm our ability to seek or obtain regulatory approval or would limit the commercial potential of FX006, if approved. Product candidates in later stages of clinical trials may fail to show the desired safety and efficacy traits despite having progressed through preclinical studies and initial clinical trials. In addition to the safety and efficacy traits of any product candidate, clinical trial failures may result from a multitude of factors including flaws in trial design, dose selection, placebo effect and patient enrollment criteria. A number of companies in the biopharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials due to lack of efficacy or adverse safety profiles, notwithstanding promising results in earlier trials. Based upon negative or inconclusive results, we or our collaborators may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or preclinical studies. In addition, data obtained from trials and studies are susceptible to varying interpretations, and regulators may not interpret our data as favorably as we do, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Our future clinical trial results may not be successful. If FX006 or any other product candidate is found to be unsafe or lack efficacy, we will not be able to obtain regulatory approval for it and our business would be materially harmed. For example, if the results of our planned confirmatory Phase 2b or other clinical trials for FX006 demonstrate unexpected safety findings or do not achieve the primary efficacy endpoints, the prospects for approval of FX006 as well our stock price and our ability to create stockholder value would be materially and adversely affected. In some instances, there can be significant variability in safety and/or efficacy results between different trials of the same product candidate due to numerous factors, including changes in trial protocols, differences in composition of the patient populations, adherence to the dosing regimen and other trial protocols and the rate of dropout among clinical trial participants. We do not know whether any future clinical trials we may conduct will demonstrate consistent or adequate efficacy and safety to obtain regulatory approval to market our product candidates. If we are unable to bring any of our current or future product candidates to market, our ability to create long-term stockholder value will be limited. If the FDA does not conclude that FX006 satisfies the requirements for the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory approval pathway, or if the requirements for FX006 under Section 505(b)(2) are not as we expect, the approval pathway for FX006 will likely take significantly longer, cost significantly more and entail significantly greater complications and risks than anticipated, and in either case may not be successful. We intend to seek FDA approval through the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway for FX006. The Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, also known as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments, added Section 505(b)(2) to the FDCA. Section 505(b)(2) permits the filing of an NDA where at least some of the information required for approval comes from studies not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference. If the FDA does not allow us to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway as anticipated, we may need to conduct additional clinical trials, provide additional data and information, and meet additional standards for regulatory approval. If this were to occur, the time and financial resources required to obtain FDA approval for FX006, and complications and risks associated with FX006, would likely substantially increase. We may need to obtain additional funding, which could result in significant 39 Table of Contents dilution to the ownership interests of our then existing stockholders to the extent we issue equity securities or convertible debt. We cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, inability to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway could result in new competitive products reaching the market faster than FX006, which could materially adversely impact our competitive position and prospects. Even if we are allowed to pursue the Section 505(b)(2) regulatory pathway, we cannot assure you that FX006 will receive the requisite approvals for commercialization. In addition, notwithstanding the approval of a number of products by the FDA under Section 505(b)(2) over the last few years, some pharmaceutical companies and others have objected to the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2). If the FDA’s interpretation of Section 505(b)(2) is successfully challenged, the FDA may be required to change its 505(b)(2) policies and practices, which could delay or even prevent the FDA from approving any NDA that we submit under Section 505(b)(2). Delays in clinical trials are common and have many causes, and any delay could result in increased costs to us and jeopardize or delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commence product sales. We may experience delays in clinical trials of our product candidates. We plan to initiate a confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial of FX006 in the second quarter of 2014, and a PoC clinical trial of FX007 and a planned repeat dose safety clinical trial of FX006 in the second half of 2014. Our planned clinical trials may not begin on time, have an effective design, enroll a sufficient number of patients, or be completed on schedule, if at all. Our clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • inability to raise funding necessary to initiate or continue a trial; • delays in obtaining regulatory approval to commence a trial; • delays in reaching agreement with the FDA on final trial design; • imposition of a clinical hold for safety reasons or following an inspection of our clinical trial operations or trial sites by the FDA or other regulatory authorities; • delays in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations, or CROs, and clinical trial sites; • delays in obtaining required IRB approval at each site; • delays in recruiting suitable patients to participate in a trial; • delays in having patients complete participation in a trial or return for post-treatment follow-up; • clinical sites dropping out of a trial to the detriment of enrollment; • time required to add new clinical sites; or • delays by our contract manufacturers to produce and deliver sufficient supply of clinical trial materials. For example, our completed Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial for FX006 was subject to a clinical hold imposed by the FDA due to the observation of effects of PLGA microspheres on synovial tissue from FX006 injections. While we later resumed enrollment at non-U.S. sites and the clinical hold was eventually lifted without restriction by the FDA, the hold delayed our completion of the trial and resulted in additional expense. 40 Table of Contents If initiation or completion of our planned clinical trials are delayed for any of the above reasons or other reasons, our development costs may increase, our approval process could be delayed and our ability to commercialize and commence sales of our product candidates could be materially harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our product candidates may cause adverse events or have other properties that could delay or prevent their regulatory approval or limit the scope of any approved label or market acceptance. Adverse events, or AEs, caused by our product candidates or other potentially harmful characteristics of our product candidates could cause us, other reviewing entities, clinical trial sites or regulatory authorities to interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval. For example, in rat toxicology studies with repeat doses of FX005, an abnormal decrease of cartilage cells and components of cartilage matrix was observed. Based on these findings, we conducted additional non-clinical studies involving different doses and/or dose frequencies for FX005 to guide further clinical development. While we have identified a lower dose of FX005 that avoids these toxicology issues, we will need to demonstrate that doses lower than those used in the Phase 2a clinical trial will be effective, or we may need to pursue further development of FX005 as a single-dose treatment, which could limit its overall market potential. While no serious adverse events, or SAEs, related to study drug were observed in our completed Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial of FX006, the clinical trials conducted by us with our product candidates to date have generated some AEs related to the study drug. For example, although 17.6% of patients treated with immediate-release TCA experienced AEs, 10.7% of FX006 patients were judged by their physicians to have an AE at least possibly related to study drug. The most commonly observed FX006 AEs were arthralgia (joint pain) and joint stiffness and were generally mild to moderate in severity. If drug-related SAEs are observed in any of our clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates may be adversely impacted. Further, if any of our approved products cause serious or unexpected side effects after receiving market approval, a number of potentially significant negative consequences could result, including: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product or impose restrictions on its distribution in the form of a modified Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy; • regulatory authorities may require the addition of labeling statements, such as warnings or contraindications; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered or conduct additional clinical studies; • we could be sued and held liable for harm caused to patients; or • our reputation may suffer. Any of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product candidate and could substantially increase the costs of commercializing our product candidates. The regulatory approval processes of the FDA and comparable foreign authorities are lengthy, time consuming and inherently unpredictable, and if we are ultimately unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, our business will be substantially harmed. The time required to obtain approval by the FDA and comparable foreign authorities is unpredictable but typically takes many years following the commencement of clinical trials and depends upon numerous factors, including the substantial discretion of the regulatory authorities. In addition, approval policies, 41 Table of Contents regulations, or the type and amount of clinical data necessary to gain approval may change during the course of a product candidate’s clinical development and may vary among jurisdictions. For example, we cannot guarantee that our on-going synovial fluid pharmacokinetic trial or our planned confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial for FX006 will be sufficient to allow subsequent Phase 3 development or that the FDA will not require additional or different clinical trials prior to initiating Phase 3 development of FX006. We have not obtained regulatory approval for any product candidate, and it is possible that none of our existing product candidates or any product candidates we may seek to develop in the future will ever obtain regulatory approval. Our product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval for many reasons, including the following: • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with the design, scope or implementation of our clinical trials; • we may be unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities that a product candidate is safe and effective for its proposed indication; • the results of clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for approval; • we may be unable to demonstrate that a product candidate’s clinical and other benefits outweigh its safety risks; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may disagree with our interpretation of data from preclinical studies or clinical trials; • the data collected from clinical trials of our product candidates may not be sufficient to support the submission of an NDA or other submission or to obtain regulatory approval in the United States or elsewhere; • the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may fail to approve the manufacturing processes or facilities of third party manufacturers with which we contract for clinical and commercial supplies; and • the approval policies or regulations of the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may change significantly in a manner rendering our clinical data insufficient for approval. This lengthy approval process, as well as the unpredictability of future clinical trial results, may result in our failing to obtain regulatory approval to market FX006 or our other product candidates, which would harm our business, results of operations and prospects significantly. In addition, even if we were to obtain approval, regulatory authorities may approve any of our product candidates for fewer or more limited indications than we request, may not approve the price we intend to charge for our products, may grant approval contingent on the performance of costly post-marketing clinical trials, or may approve a product candidate with a label that does not include the labeling claims necessary or desirable for the successful commercialization of that product candidate. Any of the foregoing scenarios could harm the commercial prospects for our product candidates. For example, we believe that, to the extent our clinical development of FX006 continues to focus on knee OA, any initial indication of FX006 would be limited to the treatment of knee OA, as opposed to the treatment of OA generally. If an initial indication is limited to knee OA, we would likely need to conduct additional clinical trials in order to market FX006 for other indications and expand its market potential. 42 Table of Contents We have not previously submitted an NDA or any similar drug approval filing to the FDA or any comparable foreign authority for any product candidate, and we cannot be certain that any of our product candidates will be successful in clinical trials or receive regulatory approval. Further, our product candidates may not receive regulatory approval even if they are successful in clinical trials. If we do not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates, we may not be able to continue our operations. Even if we successfully obtain regulatory approvals to market one or more of our product candidates, our revenue will be dependent, to a significant extent, upon the size of the markets in the territories for which we gain regulatory approval. If the markets for patients or indications that we are targeting are not as significant as we estimate, we may not generate significant revenue from sales of such products, if approved. The FDA and other regulatory agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. If any of our product candidates are approved and we are found to have improperly promoted off-label uses of those products, we may become subject to significant liability. The FDA and other regulatory agencies strictly regulate the promotional claims that may be made about prescription products, such as our product candidates, if approved. In particular, a product may not be promoted for uses that are not approved by the FDA or such other regulatory agencies as reflected in the product’s approved labeling. If we receive marketing approval for our product candidates as a therapy for knee OA, physicians may nevertheless use our product for their patients in a manner that is inconsistent with the approved label, potentially including as an injection in other joints. If we are found to have promoted such off-label uses, we may become subject to significant liability. The federal government has levied large civil and criminal fines against companies for alleged improper promotion of off-label use and has enjoined several companies from engaging in off-label promotion. The FDA has also requested that companies enter into consent decrees or permanent injunctions under which specified promotional conduct is changed or curtailed. If we cannot successfully manage the promotion of our product candidates, if approved, we could become subject to significant liability, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for FX006 or other product candidates, we will still face extensive regulatory requirements and our products may face future development and regulatory difficulties. Even if we obtain regulatory approval in the United States, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of our product candidates, or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. FX006 and our other product candidates, if approved, will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements governing the labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, safety surveillance, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and reporting of safety and other post-market information. The holder of an approved NDA is obligated to monitor and report AEs and any failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA. The holder of an approved NDA must also submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for certain changes to the approved product, product labeling or manufacturing process. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules and are subject to FDA review, in addition to other potentially applicable federal and state laws. In addition, manufacturers of drug products and their facilities are subject to payment of user fees and continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities for compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, and adherence to commitments made in the NDA. If we or a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as AEs of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions relative to that product or the manufacturing facility, including requiring recall or withdrawal of the product from the market or suspension of manufacturing. 43 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements following approval of a product candidate, a regulatory agency may: • issue a warning letter asserting that we are in violation of the law; • seek an injunction or impose civil or criminal penalties or monetary fines; • suspend or withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve a pending NDA or supplements to an NDA submitted by us; • seize product; or • refuse to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity. The occurrence of any event or penalty described above may inhibit our ability to commercialize our products and generate revenue. Any relationships with potential customers and third party payors may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws, false claims laws, marketing expenditure tracking and disclosure (or “sunshine”) laws, government price reporting, and health information privacy and security laws. If we are unable to comply, or have not fully complied, with such laws, we could face criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings. Our operations may be directly, or indirectly, subject to various federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including, without limitation, the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act. If we obtain FDA approval for any of our product candidates and begin commercializing those products in the United States, our potential exposure under such laws will increase significantly, and our costs associated with compliance are also likely to increase. These laws may impact, among other things, our current activities with investigators and research subjects, as well as proposed sales, marketing and education programs. In addition, we may be subject to patient privacy regulation by the federal government and by the U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. The laws that may affect our ability to operate include, but are not limited to: • the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual, or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; • federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, which prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third party payors that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government; • HIPAA, which created new federal criminal statutes that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and making false statements relating to healthcare matters; 44 Table of Contents • HIPAA, as amended by HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose requirements on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their business associates that perform services involving the use or disclosure of individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information; • the federal Open Payments program, created under Section 6002 of PPACA, and its implementing regulations requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, information related to “payments or other transfers of value” made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, and applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations to report annually to HHS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members; • state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third party payor, including commercial insurers; state and foreign laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers; state and foreign laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures; and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts; • the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, a U.S. law which regulates certain financial relationships with foreign government officials (which could include, for example, certain medical professionals); and • federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers. In addition, the FDA approval and commercialization of any of our product candidates in the United States will also likely subject us to the following types of laws, among others: • state and federal government price reporting laws that require us to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on our marketed drugs (participation in these programs and compliance with the applicable requirements may subject us to potentially significant discounts on our products, increased infrastructure costs, and potentially limit our ability to offer certain marketplace discounts); and • state and federal marketing expenditure tracking and reporting laws, which generally require certain types of expenditures in the United States to be tracked and reported (compliance with such requirements may require investment in infrastructure to ensure that tracking is performed properly, and some of these laws result in the public disclosure of various types of payments and relationships, which could potentially have a negative effect on our business and/or increase enforcement scrutiny of our activities). 45 Table of Contents Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, civil, criminal, and administrative penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment, possible exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs, and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. Even if we obtain FDA approval for FX006 or any other product candidate in the United States, we may never obtain approval for or commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States, which would limit our ability to realize their full market potential. In order to market any products outside of the United States, we must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Clinical trials conducted in one country may not be accepted by regulatory authorities in other countries, and regulatory approval in one country does not mean that regulatory approval will be obtained in any other country. Approval processes vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and validation and additional administrative review periods. Seeking foreign regulatory approval could result in difficulties and costs for us and require additional non-clinical studies or clinical trials which could be costly and time consuming. Regulatory requirements can vary widely from country to country and could delay or prevent the introduction of our products in those countries. We do not have any product candidates approved for sale in any jurisdiction, including international markets, and we do not have experience in obtaining regulatory approval in international markets. If we fail to comply with regulatory requirements in international markets or to obtain and maintain required approvals, or if regulatory approval in international markets are delayed, our target market will be reduced and our ability to realize the full market potential of our products will be harmed. If we fail to develop, acquire or in-license other product candidates or products, our business and prospects will be limited. Our long-term growth strategy is to develop, acquire or in-license and commercialize a portfolio of product candidates in addition to FX006 and our other existing product candidates. We do not have internal new drug discovery capabilities. As a result, our primary means of expanding our pipeline of product candidates is to develop improved formulations and delivery methods for existing FDA-approved products and/or select and acquire or in-license product candidates for the treatment of therapeutic indications that complement or augment our current targets, or that otherwise fit into our development or strategic plans on terms that are acceptable to us. Developing new formulations of existing products or identifying, selecting and acquiring or licensing promising product candidates requires substantial technical, financial and human resources expertise. Efforts to do so may not result in the actual development, acquisition or license of a particular product candidate, potentially resulting in a diversion of our management’s time and the expenditure of our resources with no resulting benefit. If we are unable to add additional product candidates to our pipeline, our long-term business and prospects will be limited. Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties We rely on third parties to conduct our preclinical studies and clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates and our business could be substantially harmed. 46 Table of Contents We have relied upon and plan to continue to rely upon third party CROs to monitor and manage data for our preclinical and clinical programs. We rely on these parties for execution of our preclinical studies and clinical trials, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our trials is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol, legal, regulatory and scientific standards and our reliance on the CROs does not relieve us of our regulatory responsibilities. We and our CROs are required to comply with FDA laws and regulations regarding GCP which are also required by the Competent Authorities of the Member States of the European Economic Area and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in the form of ICH guidelines for all of our products in clinical development. Regulatory authorities enforce GCP through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of our CROs fail to comply with applicable GCP, the clinical data generated in our clinical trials may be deemed unreliable and the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities may require us to perform additional clinical trials before approving our marketing applications. We cannot assure you that upon inspection by a given regulatory authority, such regulatory authority will determine that any of our clinical trials comply with GCP regulations. In addition, our clinical trials must be conducted with product produced under cGMP regulations. While we have agreements governing activities of our CROs, we have limited influence over their actual performance. In addition, portions of the clinical trials for our product candidates are expected to be conducted outside of the United States, which will make it more difficult for us to monitor CROs and perform visits of our clinical trial sites and will force us to rely heavily on CROs to ensure the proper and timely conduct of our clinical trials and compliance with applicable regulations, including GCP. Failure to comply with applicable regulations in the conduct of the clinical trials for our product candidates may require us to repeat clinical trials, which would delay the regulatory approval process. Some of our CROs have an ability to terminate their respective agreements with us if, among other reasons, it can be reasonably demonstrated that the safety of the subjects participating in our clinical trials warrants such termination, if we make a general assignment for the benefit of our creditors or if we are liquidated. If any of our relationships with these third party CROs terminate, we may not be able to enter into arrangements with alternative CROs or to do so on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, our CROs are not our employees, and except for remedies available to us under our agreements with such CROs, we cannot control whether or not they devote sufficient time and resources to our preclinical and clinical programs. If CROs do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, if they need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols, regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Consequently, our results of operations and the commercial prospects for our product candidates would be harmed, our costs could increase substantially and our ability to generate revenue could be delayed significantly. Switching or adding additional CROs involves additional cost and requires management time and focus. In addition, there is a natural transition period when a new CRO commences work. As a result, delays occur, which can materially impact our ability to meet our desired clinical development timelines. Though we carefully manage our relationships with our CROs, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter challenges or delays in the future or that these delays or challenges will not have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and prospects. We rely completely on third parties to manufacture our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and we intend to rely on third parties to produce commercial supplies of any approved product candidate. If we were to experience an unexpected loss of supply of our product candidates for any reason, whether as a result of manufacturing, supply or storage issues or otherwise, we could experience delays, disruptions, suspensions or terminations of, or be required to restart or repeat, clinical trials. We do not 47 Table of Contents currently have nor do we plan to acquire the infrastructure or capability internally to manufacture our preclinical and clinical drug supplies and we lack the resources and the capability to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers or other third party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates must be approved by the FDA pursuant to inspections that will be conducted after we submit an NDA to the FDA. While we work closely with our third party manufacturers on the manufacturing process for our product candidates, including quality audits, we generally do not control the implementation of the manufacturing process of, and are completely dependent on, our contract manufacturers or other third party manufacturers for compliance with cGMP regulatory requirements and for manufacture of both active drug substances and finished drug products. If our contract manufacturers or other third party manufacturers cannot successfully manufacture material that conforms to applicable specifications and the strict regulatory requirements of the FDA or others, they will not be able to secure and/or maintain regulatory approval for their manufacturing facilities. In addition, we have no control over the ability of our contract manufacturers or other third party manufacturers to maintain adequate quality control, quality assurance and qualified personnel. If the FDA or a comparable foreign regulatory authority does not approve these facilities for the manufacture of our product candidates or if it withdraws any such approval in the future, we may need to find alternative manufacturing facilities, which would significantly impact our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or market our product candidates, if approved. We rely on our manufacturers to purchase from third party suppliers the materials necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical trials. There are a limited number of suppliers for raw materials that we use to manufacture our drugs and there may be a need to assess alternate suppliers to prevent a possible disruption of the manufacture of the materials necessary to produce our product candidates for our clinical trials, and if approved, for commercial sale. We do not have any control over the process or timing of the acquisition of these raw materials by our manufacturers. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these raw materials. Although we generally do not begin a clinical trial, unless we believe we have a sufficient supply of a product candidate to complete the clinical trial, any significant delay in the supply of a product candidate, or the raw material components thereof, for an ongoing clinical trial due to the need to replace a contract manufacturer or other third party manufacturer could considerably delay completion of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates. If our manufacturers or we are unable to purchase these raw materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would impair our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates. As part of our planned development program for FX006, we will need to provide appropriate regulatory agencies with a chemistry, manufacturing and control manufacturing site change filing. Specifically, after drug product was manufactured and used in our completed Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial of FX006, new equipment, including a new spray chamber, was put in place, and a new contract manufacturer, Evonik, was engaged to produce the finished microspheres product. FX006 drug product produced by this new manufacturer using the new equipment has not yet been used in a clinical trial. An IND amendment for a manufacturing site change from Southwest Research Institute to Evonik where we provide data to demonstrate suitability of Evonik to manufacture FX006 finished product must be filed prior to initiating the planned confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial of FX006 and other planned and future clinical trials for FX006. The absence of a timely approval could adversely affect the availability of suitable FX006 drug product and thus adversely impact both our ability to commence, as well as the timing of, the planned confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial of FX006. Even if we demonstrate adequate comparability of drug product produced with the new equipment to the drug product used in our completed Phase 2b dose-ranging clinical trial, the drug product used in our planned confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial may still cause unexpected results or otherwise adversely affect the confirmatory Phase 2b clinical trial. 48 Table of Contents We expect to continue to depend on contract manufacturers or other third party manufacturers for the foreseeable future. We have not entered into long-term commercial supply agreements with our current contract manufacturers or with any alternate fill/finish suppliers. Although we intend to do so prior to any commercial launch in order to ensure that we maintain adequate supplies of finished drug product, we may be unable to enter into such an agreement or do so on commercially reasonable terms, which could have a material adverse impact upon our business. We rely on limited sources of supply for our product candidates and any disruption in the chain of supply may cause delay in developing and commercializing our product candidates. Currently, for FX006, we use Farmabios SpA as our sole source of TCA, and for both FX006 and FX005, Evonik as our sole source of finished microspheres drug product. Because of the unique equipment and process for loading TCA onto PLGA microspheres, transferring manufacturing activities for FX006 to an alternate supplier would be a time-consuming and costly endeavor, and there are only a limited number of manufacturers that we believe are capable of performing this function for us. Switching FX006 finished drug suppliers may involve substantial cost and could result in a delay in our desired clinical and commercial timelines. For FX006, we expect that initially only one supplier will be qualified as a vendor with the FDA. If supply from the approved vendor is interrupted, there could be a significant disruption in commercial supply. Any alternative vendor would need to be qualified through an NDA supplement which could result in further delay. The FDA or other regulatory agencies outside of the United States may also require additional studies if a new FX006 supplier is relied upon for commercial production. These factors could cause the delay of clinical trials, regulatory submissions, required approvals or commercialization of our product candidates, cause us to incur higher costs and prevent us from commercializing them successfully. Furthermore, if our suppliers fail to deliver the required commercial quantities of active pharmaceutical ingredient on a timely basis and at commercially reasonable prices, and we are unable to secure one or more replacement suppliers capable of production at a substantially equivalent cost, our clinical trials may be delayed or we could lose potential revenue. Manufacturing issues may arise that could increase product and regulatory approval costs or delay commercialization. As we scale up manufacturing of our product candidates and conduct required stability testing, we may encounter product, packaging, equipment and process-related issues that may require refinement or resolution in order to proceed with our planned clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for commercial marketing. In the future, we may identify impurities, which could result in increased scrutiny by the regulatory agencies, delays in our clinical program and regulatory approval, increases in our operating expenses, or failure to obtain or maintain approval for our product candidates. We may not be successful in establishing development and commercialization collaborations which could adversely affect, and potentially prohibit, our ability to develop our product candidates. Because developing pharmaceutical products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approval, establishing manufacturing capabilities and marketing approved products are expensive, we are exploring collaborations with third parties outside of the United States that have more resources and experience. For example, we are exploring selective partnerships with third parties for FX006 development and commercialization outside of the United States. If we are unable to obtain a partner for FX006, we may be unable to advance the development of FX006 in territories outside of the United States, which may limit the market potential for this product candidate. In situations where we enter into a development and commercial collaboration arrangement for a product candidate, we may also seek to establish additional collaborations for development and commercialization in territories outside of those addressed by the first collaboration arrangement for such product candidate. If any of our product 49 Table of Contents candidates receives marketing approval, we may enter into sales and marketing arrangements with third parties with respect to otherwise unlicensed or unaddressed territories outside of the United States. There are a limited number of potential partners, and we expect to face competition in seeking appropriate partners. If we are unable to enter into any development and commercial collaborations and/or sales and marketing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, we may be unable to successfully develop and seek regulatory approval for our product candidates and/or effectively market and sell future approved products, if any, in all of the territories outside of the United States where it may otherwise be valuable to do so. In addition, under the terms of our license agreement with AstraZeneca AB, or AstraZeneca, for FX007, we may not, without the consent of AstraZeneca, grant sublicenses to FX007 except in the territory of Japan prior to the achievement of a specified development milestone. Further, the agreement provides that in the event we desire to offer rights to FX007 to a third party prior to the achievement of a specified development milestone, we must make certain diligence materials available to AstraZeneca, and AstraZeneca will have the right to make an offer to re-acquire rights to FX007. In such circumstances, we are not required to accept AstraZeneca’s offer, but we may not enter into an agreement with a third party containing financial terms and conditions that on the whole are more favorable to the third party than the terms and conditions last offered by AstraZeneca. These provisions may limit our ability to partner with a third party during the early development stages of FX007. We may not be successful in maintaining development and commercialization collaborations, and any partner may not devote sufficient resources to the development or commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in development or commercialization efforts, which could adversely affect our ability to develop certain of our product candidates and our financial condition and operating results. Even if we are able to establish collaboration arrangements, any such collaboration may not ultimately be successful, which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. If we partner with a third party for development and commercialization of a product candidate, we can expect to relinquish some or all of the control over the future success of that product candidate to the third party. It is possible that a partner may not devote sufficient resources to the development or commercialization of our product candidate or may otherwise fail in development or commercialization efforts, in which event the development and commercialization of such product candidate could be delayed or terminated and our business could be substantially harmed. In addition, the terms of any collaboration or other arrangement that we establish may not prove to be favorable to us or may not be perceived as favorable, which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. In some cases, we may be responsible for continuing development of a product candidate or research program under a collaboration, and the payment we receive from our partner may be insufficient to cover the cost of this development. Moreover, collaborations and sales and marketing arrangements are complex and time consuming to negotiate, document and implement and they may require substantial resources to maintain. We are subject to a number of additional risks associated with our dependence on collaborations with third parties, the occurrence of which could cause our collaboration arrangements to fail. Conflicts may arise between us and partners, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any such conflicts arise, a partner could act in its own self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement between us and a partner could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability: • reductions in the payment of royalties or other payments we believe are due pursuant to the applicable collaboration arrangement; 50 Table of Contents • actions taken by a partner inside or outside our collaboration which could negatively impact our rights or benefits under our collaboration; or • unwillingness on the part of a partner to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities. Risks Related to Commercialization of Our Product Candidates Our commercial success depends upon attaining significant market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved, among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for FX006 or any of our other product candidates, the product may not gain market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community, which is critical to commercial success. Market acceptance of any product candidate for which we receive approval depends on a number of factors, including: • the efficacy and safety as demonstrated in clinical trials; • the timing of market introduction of the product candidate as well as competitive products; • the clinical indications for which the product candidate is approved; • acceptance by physicians, the medical community and patients of the product candidate as a safe and effective treatment; • the convenience of prescribing and initiating patients on the product candidate; • the potential and perceived advantages of such product candidate over alternative treatments; • the cost of treatment in relation to alternative treatments, including any similar generic treatments; • the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement and pricing by third party payors and government authorities; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and • the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts. If our product candidates, including FX006, are approved but fail to achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors, patients and the medical community, we will not be able to generate significant revenue, and we may not become or remain profitable. Guidelines and recommendations published by various organizations can reduce the use of our product candidates. Government agencies promulgate regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our product candidates. In addition, professional societies, such as the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, practice management groups, private health and science foundations and organizations involved in various diseases from time to time may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the healthcare 51 Table of Contents and patient communities. Recommendations of government agencies or these other groups or organizations may relate to such matters as usage, dosage, route of administration and use of concomitant therapies. Recommendations or guidelines suggesting the reduced use of our product candidates or the use of competitive or alternative products as the standard of care to be followed by patients and healthcare providers could result in decreased use of our product candidates. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may be unable to generate any revenue. Although we intend to establish a targeted sales and marketing organization to promote any approved products in the United States, we currently have no such organization or capabilities, and the cost of establishing and maintaining such an organization may exceed the cost-effectiveness of doing so. In order to market any products that may be approved, we must build sales, marketing, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. We may enter into strategic partnerships with third parties to commercialize our product candidates outside of the United States. To date, we have not entered into any strategic partnerships for any of our product candidates. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate strategic partners, and these strategic partnerships can be intricate and time consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate strategic partnerships for territories outside of the United States on acceptable terms, or at all. We are unable to predict when, if ever, we will enter into any strategic partnerships outside of the United States because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with establishing strategic partnerships. To the extent that we enter into collaboration arrangements, our future collaboration partners may not dedicate sufficient resources to the commercialization of our product candidates or may otherwise fail in their commercialization due to factors beyond our control. If we are unable to establish effective collaborations to enable the sale of our product candidates in territories outside of the United States, or if our potential future collaboration partners do not successfully commercialize our product candidates in these territories, our ability to generate revenue from product sales will be adversely affected. If we are unable to negotiate a strategic partnership or obtain additional financial resources for a product candidate, we may be forced to curtail the development of such product candidate, delay potential commercialization, reduce the scope of our sales or marketing activities or undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. In addition, without a partnership, we will bear all the risk related to the development of the product candidate, including in territories outside of the United States. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities ourselves, we will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring FX006 or any other product candidates to market or generate product revenue. We and any collaboration partners that we may engage will be competing with many companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. If we, alone or with commercialization partners, are unable to compete successfully against these established companies, the commercial success of any approved products will be limited. If we obtain approval to commercialize any approved products outside of the United States, a variety of risks associated with international operations could materially adversely affect our business. If FX006 or other product candidates are approved for commercialization, we may enter into agreements with third parties to market these products outside of the United States. We expect that we will be subject to additional risks related to entering into international business relationships, including: • different regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; 52 Table of Contents • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; • economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; • compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; • foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; • foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses and reduced revenue, and other obligations incident to doing business in another country; • workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the United States; • production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; • business interruptions resulting from geopolitical actions, including war and terrorism, or natural disasters including earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires; and • unfavorable pricing approved in countries, which could result in reduced revenue. If we are unable to differentiate our lead product candidate, FX006, from existing generic therapies for the treatment of OA, or if the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities approve generic products that compete with any of our product candidates, the ability to successfully commercialize those product candidates would be adversely affected. Immediate-release TCA and other injectable immediate-release steroids, which are the current standard of care, are available in generic form and are therefore relatively inexpensive compared to the price we would expect to receive for FX006. These generic steroids also have well-established market positions and familiarity with physicians, healthcare payors and patients. Although we believe FX006 has the potential for clinically meaningful differentiation in sustained pain relief as compared to immediate-release TCA, as clinical development of FX006 advances and we receive data from additional clinical trials, it is possible that the data will not support such differentiation. If we are unable to achieve significant differentiation for FX006 from immediate-release TCA and other injectable immediate-release steroids, our opportunity for FX006 to achieve premium pricing and be commercialized successfully, if approved, would be adversely affected. In addition to existing generic steroids, such as immediate-release TCA, the FDA or other applicable regulatory authorities may approve generic products that could compete with our product candidates. Once an NDA, including a Section 505(b)(2) application, is approved, the product covered thereby becomes a “listed drug” which can, in turn, be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA. The FDCA, FDA regulations and other applicable regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug to facilitate the approval of an ANDA or other application for generic substitutes. These manufacturers might only be required to conduct a relatively inexpensive study to show that their product has the same active ingredient(s), dosage form, strength, route of administration, and conditions of use, or labeling, as our product candidate and that the generic product is bioequivalent to ours, meaning it is absorbed in the body at the same rate and to the same extent as our product candidate. These generic equivalents, which must meet the same quality 53 Table of Contents standards as branded pharmaceuticals, would be significantly less costly than ours to bring to market and companies that produce generic equivalents are generally able to offer their products at lower prices. Thus, after the introduction of a generic competitor, a significant percentage of the sales of any branded product is typically lost to the generic product. Accordingly, competition from generic equivalents to our product candidates would materially adversely impact our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates. We face significant competition from other biopharmaceutical companies, and our operating results will suffer if we fail to compete effectively. The biopharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. In addition, the competition in the pain and OA market is intense. We have competitors both in the United States and internationally, including major multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies and universities and other research institutions. For example, the injectable OA treatment market today includes many injectable immediate-release steroids, including TCA, the active ingredient in FX006, as well as HA injections. In addition, we expect that injectable therapies such as FX006 will continue to be used primarily after oral medications no longer provide adequate pain relief. To the extent that new or improved oral pain medications are introduced that demonstrate better long-term efficacy and safety, patients and physicians may further delay the introduction of injectable therapies such as FX006 in the OA treatment continuum. FX006 could also face competition from other formulations or devices that deliver pain medication on a sustained basis, such as transdermal delivery systems or implantable devices. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources, such as larger research and development staff and experienced marketing and manufacturing organizations. Mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated in our competitors. As a result, these companies may obtain regulatory approval more rapidly than we are able and may be more effective in selling and marketing their products as well. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large, established companies. Competition may increase further as a result of advances in the commercial applicability of technologies and greater availability of capital for investment in these industries. Our competitors may succeed in developing, acquiring or licensing on an exclusive basis drug products or drug delivery technologies that are more effective or less costly than FX006 or any other drug candidate that we are currently developing or that we may develop. We believe that our ability to successfully compete will depend on, among other things: • the efficacy and safety of our product candidates, including as relative to marketed products and product candidates in development by third parties; • the time it takes for our product candidates to complete clinical development and receive marketing approval; • the ability to maintain a good relationship with regulatory authorities; • the ability to commercialize and market any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval; • the price of our products, including in comparison to branded or generic competitors; • whether coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement are available under private and governmental health insurance plans, including Medicare; 54 Table of Contents • the ability to protect intellectual property rights related to our product candidates; • the ability to manufacture on a cost-effective basis and sell commercial quantities of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval; and • acceptance of any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval by physicians and other healthcare providers. If our competitors market products that are more effective, safer or less expensive than our future products, if any, or that reach the market sooner than our future products, if any, we may not achieve commercial success. In addition, the biopharmaceutical industry is characterized by rapid technological change. Because we have limited research and development capabilities, it may be difficult for us to stay abreast of the rapid changes in each technology. If we fail to stay at the forefront of technological change, we may be unable to compete effectively. Technological advances or products developed by our competitors may render our technologies or product candidates obsolete, less competitive or not economical. If we are unable to achieve and maintain adequate levels of third party payor coverage and reimbursement for FX006 or any other product candidates, if approved, on reasonable pricing terms, their commercial success may be severely hindered. Successful sales of any approved product candidates depend on the availability of adequate coverage and reimbursement from third party payors. Patients who are prescribed medicine for the treatment of their conditions generally rely on third party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and commercial payors is critical to new product acceptance. Coverage decisions may depend upon clinical and economic standards that disfavor new drug products when more established or lower cost therapeutic alternatives are already available or subsequently become available. Assuming we obtain coverage for a given product, the resulting reimbursement payment rates might not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Patients are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. In addition, the market for FX006 and any of our other product candidates will depend significantly on access to third party payors’ drug formularies, or lists of medications for which third party payors provide coverage and reimbursement. The industry competition to be included in such formularies often leads to downward pricing pressures on pharmaceutical companies. Also, third party payors may refuse to include a particular branded drug in their formularies or otherwise restrict patient access to a branded drug when a less costly generic equivalent or other alternative is available. Third party payors, whether foreign or domestic, or governmental or commercial, are developing increasingly sophisticated methods of controlling healthcare costs. In addition, in the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists among third party payors. Therefore, coverage and reimbursement for drug products can differ significantly from payor to payor. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. Further, we believe that future coverage and reimbursement will likely be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets. Third party coverage and reimbursement for FX006 or any of our other product candidates for which we may receive regulatory approval may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. 55 Table of Contents Recently enacted and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us to commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we may obtain. The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering, or have enacted, a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our product candidates profitably, once they are approved for sale. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives. In March 2010, PPACA was enacted, which includes measures that have or will significantly change the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers. Among the PPACA provisions of importance to the pharmaceutical industry are the following: • an annual, non-deductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain branded prescription drugs and biologic agents, apportioned among these entities according to their market share in certain government healthcare programs, that began in 2011; • an increase in the rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13.0% of the average manufacturer price for branded and generic drugs, respectively; • a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50.0% point-of-sale discounts to negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D; • extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations; • expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for certain individuals with income at or below 133.0% of the Federal Poverty Level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability; • expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program; • new requirements under the federal Open Payments program, created under Section 6002 of PPACA and its implementing regulations that manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually to HHS information related to “payments or other transfers of value” made or distributed to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals and that applicable manufacturers and applicable group purchasing organizations report annually to HHS ownership and investment interests held by physicians (as defined above) and their immediate family members, with data collection currently required and reporting to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services required by March 31, 2014 and by the 90th day of each subsequent calendar year; • a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians, effective April 1, 2012; 56 Table of Contents • expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for non-compliance; • a licensure framework for follow-on biologic products; • a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research; • creation of the Independent Payment Advisory Board, which has authority to recommend certain changes to the Medicare program that could result in reduced payments for prescription drugs and those recommendations could have the effect of law even if Congress does not act on the recommendations; and • establishment of a Center for Medicare Innovation at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending, potentially including prescription drug spending that began on January 1, 2011. In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since PPACA was enacted. In August 2011, the President signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, created the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to Congress. The Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction did not achieve its targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the legislation’s automatic reductions to several government programs. These reductions include aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, starting in 2013. In January 2013, President Obama signed into law the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, which could have a material adverse effect on our customers and accordingly, our financial operations. Risks Related to Our Business Operations and Industry Our future success depends on our ability to retain key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive team listed under “Management” located elsewhere in this Annual Report, the loss of whose services may adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. While we have entered into employment agreements or offer letters with each of our executive officers, any of them could leave our employment at any time, as all of our employees are “at will” employees. Recruiting and retaining other qualified employees for our business, including scientific and technical personnel, will also be critical to our success. There is currently a shortage of skilled executives in our industry, which is likely to continue. As a result, competition for skilled personnel is intense and the turnover rate can be high. We may not be able to attract and retain personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous pharmaceutical companies for individuals with similar skill sets. In addition, failure to succeed in clinical studies may make it more challenging to recruit and retain qualified personnel. The inability to recruit or the loss of the services of any executive or key employee might impede the progress of our development and commercialization objectives. We will need to expand our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing this growth, which could disrupt our operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had 16 full-time employees. As our company matures, we expect to expand our employee base to increase our managerial, scientific and engineering, operational, sales, 57 Table of Contents marketing, financial and other resources and to hire more consultants and contractors. Future growth would impose significant additional responsibilities on our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees, consultants and contractors. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure, give rise to operational mistakes, loss of business opportunities, loss of employees and reduced productivity among remaining employees. Future growth could require significant capital expenditures and may divert financial resources from other projects, such as the development of our existing or future product candidates. If our management is unable to effectively manage our growth, our expenses may increase more than expected, our ability to generate and/or grow revenue could be reduced, and we may not be able to implement our business strategy. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize FX006 and our other product candidates, if approved, and compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. We face potential product liability, and, if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling or otherwise coming into contact with our product candidates. If we cannot successfully defend against product liability claims, we could incur substantial liability and costs. In addition, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs due to related litigation; • distraction of management’s attention from our primary business; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • the inability to commercialize our product candidates; and • decreased demand for our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. We currently carry product liability insurance with limits of $10 million in the aggregate and $10 million per occurrence. Our current product liability insurance coverage may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. If and when we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates, we intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products; however, we may be unable to obtain product liability insurance on commercially reasonable terms or in adequate amounts. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on drugs that had unanticipated adverse effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to decline and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could adversely affect our results of operations and business. 58 Table of Contents We rely significantly on information technology and any failure, inadequacy, interruption or security lapse of that technology, including any cybersecurity incidents, could harm our ability to operate our business effectively. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems and those of third parties with which we contract are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. System failures, accidents or security breaches could cause interruptions in our operations, and could result in a material disruption of our clinical activities and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. The loss of clinical trial data could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach were to result in a loss of, or damage to, our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and our development programs and the development of our product candidates could be delayed. Business interruptions could delay us in the process of developing our product candidates and could disrupt our sales. Our headquarters are located in Burlington, Massachusetts. We are vulnerable to natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and severe storms, as well as other events that could disrupt our operations. We do not carry insurance for natural disasters and we may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur. Any losses or damages we incur could have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to obtain or protect intellectual property rights related to our product candidates, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and proprietary know how, and intend to seek marketing exclusivity for any approved product, in order to protect the intellectual property related to product candidates, but to date we do not have any issued patents covering FX006. The strength of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and can be uncertain. The patent applications that we own or in-license may fail to result in issued patents with claims that cover our product candidates in the United States or in other foreign countries. If this were to occur, early generic competition could be expected against FX006 and potentially our other product candidates in development. Even if patents do successfully issue, third parties may challenge their validity, enforceability or scope, which may result in such patents being narrowed or invalidated. Also, a third party may challenge our ownership of patents and patent applications assigned to us, or may challenge our exclusive rights to patents and patent applications that we license from third parties. Furthermore, even if they are unchallenged, our patents and patent applications may not adequately protect our intellectual property or prevent others from designing around our claims. If the patent applications we hold with respect to FX006 or our other product candidates fail to issue or if their breadth or strength of protection is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop them, and threaten our ability to commercialize any resulting products. We cannot offer any assurances about which, if any, patents will issue or whether any issued patents will be found not invalid and not unenforceable or will go unthreatened by third parties. Further, if we encounter delays in regulatory approvals, the period of time during which we could market FX006 or any other product candidate under patent protection could be reduced. Furthermore, patent applications by third parties can result in an interference proceeding in the United States being provoked by a third party or instituted by us to determine who was the first to invent any of the subject matter covered by the patent claims of our applications. See “Business—Patents and Patent Applications” for additional information regarding our material patents and patent applications. 59 Table of Contents In addition to the protection afforded by patents, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and any other elements of our drug development process that involve proprietary know-how, information or technology that is not covered by patents. For example, we maintain trade secrets with respect to certain of the formulation and manufacturing techniques related to the TCA-formulated PLGA microspheres in FX006, including those that relate to precise pharmaceutical release. Although we generally require all of our employees to assign their inventions to us, and all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information or technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot provide any assurances that all such agreements have been duly executed or that our trade secrets and other confidential proprietary information will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the non-patented intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, and there is no guarantee that we will have any such enforceable trade secret protection, we may not be able to establish or maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement may prevent or delay our development and commercialization efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our avoiding infringement of the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. There is a substantial amount of litigation, both within and outside the United States, involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, including patent infringement lawsuits, interferences, oppositions and inter party reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or U.S. PTO. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing product candidates. As the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries expand and more patents are issued, the risk increases that our product candidates may be subject to claims of infringement of the patent rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There may be third-party patents or patent applications with claims to materials, formulations, methods of manufacture or methods for treatment related to the use or manufacture of FX006 and/or our other product candidates. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates may infringe. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. If any third-party patents were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover the manufacturing process of any of our product candidates, any drug substance formed during the manufacturing process or any final product itself, the holders of any such patents may be able to block our ability to commercialize such product candidate unless we obtain a license under the applicable patents, or until such patents expire. Similarly, if any third party patent were held by a court of competent jurisdiction to cover aspects of our formulations or methods of use, the holders of any such patent may be able to block our ability to develop and commercialize the applicable product candidate unless we obtain a license or until such patent expires. In either case, such a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Parties making claims against us may request and/or obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense 60 Table of Contents and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees for willful infringement, obtain one or more licenses from third parties, pay royalties or redesign our infringing products or manufacturing processes, which may be impossible or require substantial time and monetary expenditure. We cannot predict whether any such license would be available at all or whether it would be available on commercially reasonable terms. Furthermore, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research, manufacture clinical trial supplies or allow commercialization of our product candidates. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. We cannot provide any assurances that third party patents do not exist which might be enforced against our products, resulting in either an injunction prohibiting our sales, or, with respect to our sales, an obligation on our part to pay royalties and/or other forms of compensation to third parties. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license rights to technology from third parties, or if the license agreements are terminated for other reasons, we could lose license rights that are important to our business. We are a party to a number of technology licenses that are important to our business and expect to enter into additional licenses in the future. For example, our rights to FX007 and FX005 are the subject of separate exclusive license agreements with AstraZeneca. If we fail to comply with our obligations under our agreements with AstraZeneca (including, among other things, if we fail to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, commercialize and sell products based on FX007 and FX005 in major markets) or our other license agreements, or we are subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency, the licensor may have the right to terminate the license. In addition, under our agreement with AstraZeneca for FX007, AstraZeneca has a right to terminate the agreement in the event of a change of control of us prior to the achievement of a specified development milestone, unless we pay a fee to AstraZeneca. In the event that any of our important technology licenses were to be terminated by the licensor, we would likely cease further development of the related program or be required to spend significant time and resources to modify the program to not use the rights under the terminated license. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our licensors, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours or our licensors is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or defense proceedings could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Interference proceedings provoked by third parties or brought by us may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patents or patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. An unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to it from the prevailing party. Our business could be harmed if the prevailing party does not offer us a license on commercially reasonable terms. Our defense of litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and distract our management and other employees. We may not be able to prevent, alone or with our licensors, misappropriation of our intellectual property rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect those rights as fully as in the United States. 61 Table of Contents Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. There could also be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Obtaining and maintaining our patent protection depends on compliance with various procedural, document submission, fee payment and other requirements imposed by governmental patent agencies, and our patent protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements. Periodic maintenance fees on any issued patent are due to be paid to the U.S. PTO and foreign patent agencies in several stages over the lifetime of the patent. The U.S. PTO and various foreign governmental patent agencies require compliance with a number of procedural, documentary, fee payment and other similar provisions during the patent application process. While an inadvertent lapse can in many cases be cured by payment of a late fee or by other means in accordance with the applicable rules, there are situations in which non-compliance can result in abandonment or lapse of the patent or patent application, resulting in partial or complete loss of patent rights in the relevant jurisdiction. Non-compliance events that could result in abandonment or lapse of a patent or patent application include, but are not limited to, failure to respond to official actions within prescribed time limits, non-payment of fees and failure to properly legalize and submit formal documents. If we or our licensors that control the prosecution and maintenance of our licensed patents fail to maintain the patents and patent applications covering our product candidates, our competitors might be able to enter the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants or independent contractors have wrongfully used or disclosed confidential information of third parties. We employ individuals who were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We may be subject to claims that we or our employees, consultants or independent contractors have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed confidential information of our employees’ former employers or other third parties. We may also be subject to claims that former employers or other third parties have an ownership interest in our patents. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. There is no guarantee of success in defending these claims, and if we are successful, litigation could result in substantial cost and be a distraction to our management and other employees Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, you may not be able to resell your shares at a desired market price and you could lose all or part of your investment. Prior to our recently completed initial public offering, there was no public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active, liquid trading market for our shares will develop or persist. You may not be able to sell your shares quickly or at a recently reported market price if trading in our common stock is not active. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Our stock price could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including the following: • adverse results or delays in clinical trials; • inability to obtain additional funding; 62 Table of Contents • any delay in filing an NDA for any of our product candidates and any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to the FDA’s review of that NDA; • failure to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our product candidates; • inability to obtain adequate product supply for our product candidates, or the inability to do so at acceptable prices; • adverse regulatory decisions; • introduction of new products or technologies by our competitors; • failure to meet or exceed product development or financial projections we provide to the public; • failure to meet or exceed the estimates and projections of the investment community; • the perception of the pharmaceutical industry by the public, legislatures, regulators and the investment community; • announcements of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain patent protection for our technologies; • additions or departures of key scientific or management personnel; • significant lawsuits, including patent or stockholder litigation; • changes in the market valuations of similar companies; • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders in the future; and • trading volume of our common stock. In addition, the stock market in general, and the Nasdaq Global Market in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our stock and will be able to exert significant control over matters subject to stockholder approval. As of the closing of our initial public offering on February 18, 2014, our executive officers, directors, 5% or greater stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 68.6% of our outstanding voting stock. These stockholders will have the ability to influence us through this ownership position and may be able to determine all matters requiring stockholder approval. For example, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to control elections of directors, amendments of our organizational documents, or approval of any merger, sale of assets, or other major corporate transaction. This may prevent or discourage unsolicited acquisition proposals or offers for our common stock that you may believe are in your best interest as one of our stockholders. 63 Table of Contents We are an “emerging growth company,” and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not “emerging growth companies,” including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our other periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1 billion, or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the prior June 30th, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. Even after we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we may still qualify as a “smaller reporting company” which would allow us to take advantage of many of the same exemptions from disclosure requirements including exemption from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. We will incur significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. We completed our initial public offering on February 18, 2014. As a newly public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For 64 Table of Contents example, as a public company, we are now subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, which require, among other things, that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with the preparation in filing of these reports. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, and the Nasdaq Global Market have imposed various other requirements on public companies, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with compliance with such requirements. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas such as “say on pay” and proxy access. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact (in ways we cannot currently anticipate) the manner in which we operate our business. Our management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to incur substantial costs to maintain our current levels of such coverage. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Substantially all of our existing stockholders are currently subject to lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering that restrict the stockholders’ ability to transfer shares of our common stock for at least 180 days from February 11, 2014, the date of the final prospectus for our initial public offering. These lock-up agreements limit the number of shares of common stock that may be sold during the lock-up period. Subject to certain limitations, including sales volume limitations with respect to shares held by our affiliates, substantially all of our outstanding shares prior to our initial public offering will become eligible for sale upon expiration of the lock-up period. In addition, shares issued or issuable upon exercise of options vested as of the expiration of the lock-up period will be eligible for sale at that time. Sales of stock by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Certain holders of our securities are entitled to rights with respect to the registration of their shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, subject to the 180-day lock-up arrangement described above. Registration of these shares under the Securities Act would result in the shares becoming freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act. Any sales of securities by these stockholders could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including pursuant to our equity incentive plans, could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to fall. We expect that significant additional capital will be needed in the future to continue our planned operations. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. We may sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity 65 Table of Contents securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner we determine from time to time. If we sell common stock, convertible securities or other equity securities in more than one transaction, investors may be materially diluted by subsequent sales. These sales may also result in material dilution to our existing stockholders, and new investors could gain rights superior to our existing stockholders. Pursuant to our 2013 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2013 plan, our management is authorized to grant stock options and other equity-based awards to our employees, directors and consultants. The number of shares available for future grant under the 2013 plan will automatically increase each year by 4% of all shares of our capital stock outstanding as of December 31 of the prior calendar year, subject to the ability of our board of directors to take action to reduce the size of the increase in any given year. Currently, we plan to register the increased number of shares available for issuance under the 2013 plan each year. If our board of directors elects to increase the number of shares available for future grant by the maximum amount each year, our stockholders may experience additional dilution, which could cause our stock price to fall. We are at risk of securities class action litigation. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following a decline in the market price of its securities. This risk is especially relevant for us because pharmaceutical companies have experienced significant stock price volatility in recent years. If we face such litigation, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could harm our business. We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds from our recently completed initial public offering and may not use them effectively. Our management has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our recently completed initial public offering. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from our initial public offering, their ultimate use may vary substantially from their currently intended use. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from our initial public offering in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our stockholders. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change,” generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income may be limited. As of December 31, 2013, we had $35.1 million and $32.8 million of federal and state net operating loss carryforwards, respectively, and $1.6 million and$1.1 million of federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards, respectively, available to offset our future taxable income, if any. These federal net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credit carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in 2028 and 2029, respectively, if not utilized and are subject to review and possible adjustment by the Internal Revenue Service. The state net operating loss carryforwards and research and development tax credit carryforwards expire at various dates beginning in 2014 and 2024, respectively, if not utilized and are subject to review and possible adjustment by the state tax authorities. We believe that, with our initial public offering, our most recent private placement and other transactions that have occurred over the past three years, we may have triggered an “ownership change” limitation. We may also experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock 66 Table of Contents ownership. As a result, if we earn net taxable income, our ability to use our pre-change net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may be subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock so any returns will be limited to the value of our stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends for the foreseeable future. Additionally, our credit and security agreement with MidCap contains covenants that restrict our ability to pay dividends. Any return to stockholders will therefore be limited to the appreciation of their stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or increase the cost of acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders or remove our current management. Some provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law may have anti-takeover effects that could discourage an acquisition of us by others, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • limiting the removal of directors by the stockholders; • creating a staggered board of directors; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • eliminating the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with an interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless such transactions are approved by our board of directors. This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Further, other provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 67 Table of Contents 