ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur business is subject to numerous risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks are realized, in whole or in part, our business, operating results and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and IndustryWe have a recent history of losses, and we may not return to or sustain profitability in the future.We incurred net losses of $21.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, $35.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and $12.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We had an accumulated deficit of $167.1 million as of December 31, 2012. In recent years, we have made substantial investments in research and development, infrastructure, growing our sales team, international expansion and acquisitions to support anticipated future revenue growth. We expect to continue to make significant investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may make it difficult for us to return to profitability. The significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we incur as a public company require us to generate and sustain increased revenue relative to our costs to achieve profitability in the future. While our revenue has grown in recent periods, such revenue growth may not be indicative of our future performance, and this growth may not be sustainable. We may not be able to achieve sufficient revenue to return to profitability in future periods, and our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods, and if we fail to manage our domestic and international growth effectively, our financial performance may be adversely affected.We have expanded our overall business, including our revenue, team of employees, international operations and client base in recent periods. Our revenue increased from $72.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 to $292.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. We increased our total number of full-time employees from 379 as of December 31, 2008 to 1,673 as of December 31, 2012. Since August 2009, we have completed acquisitions of six companies. Our historical growth rate is not necessarily indicative of the growth that we will achieve in the future. Our recent growth and anticipated future growth has placed and will continue to place strain on our team, infrastructure and operations. Our success will depend on our ability to manage this growth effectively. We intend to further expand our overall business, client base, number of employees and operations and to continue to expand our operations internationally. Managing a large, diverse and geographically dispersed client base and workforce requires substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our team, technology and infrastructure. In order to support and sustain our growth, we must continue to improve our technology and our operational, financial and management controls and reporting procedures, and all of these investments will increase our costs. Furthermore, we have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties are incorrect or change as a result of changes in the market in which we operate, if we do not address these risks successfully or if we fail to successfully plan for and manage our growth, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations and our business and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our operating results and revenue will be adversely affected if we are not able to attract new clients, retain existing clients or sell additional functionality and services to existing clients.To continue to grow our business, we must attract new clients and retain and sell additional products and services to existing clients. Many of our subscription agreements do not automatically renew at the end of their terms and some have termination clauses that could result in early termination. As the digital marketing industry matures and as competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated competitive products or services, our ability to effectively compete with respect to pricing, technology, functionality, services and support could be impaired. In such an event, we may be unable to attract new clients or renew our agreements with existing clients on favorable or comparable terms to prior periods. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict new subscriptions or subscription renewal rates and the impact these rates may have on our future revenue and operating results. These events and developments could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and other operating results. Defects or errors in our SaaS solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions.Our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions is inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, which may cause disruptions in availability or other performance problems that could include prolonged down-time. Any such errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems, whether in connection with day-to-day operations, bug fixes, upgrades or otherwise, could be costly for us to remedy, damage our clients’ businesses and harm our reputation. In addition, if we have any such errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems, our clients could terminate their 14Table of Contentsagreements, elect not to renew their subscriptions, delay or withhold payment, or make claims against us. Any of these actions could result in lost business, increased insurance costs, difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable and costly litigation. Such errors, defects or other problems could also result in reduced sales or a loss of or delay in the market acceptance of our solutions. Our inability to successfully acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could harm our operating results. Between 2009 and September 30, 2012, we acquired a social media management and engagement platform and three international software reseller partners. In October 2012, we acquired Pardot, a marketing automation software provider and iGoDigital, a developer of advanced website solutions. We believe that these acquisitions increase the functionality of our solutions, but our ability to successfully integrate Pardot and iGoDigital will depend in large part on our ability to demonstrate to existing and potential clients the value of these specific solutions within the context of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these two acquisitions, such as increased revenue or enhanced market share, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all. These events could harm our operating results or financial condition.In the ordinary course of our business, we will continue to actively evaluate acquisitions and strategic investments, some of which may be significant in size, in businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our existing solutions, expand our client base and operations worldwide, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth or cost-saving opportunities. We may in the future enter into binding definitive agreements with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Such transactions could materially decrease the amount of our available cash or require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. We have limited experience in successfully acquiring and integrating businesses, products and technologies. We may not be successful in negotiating the terms of any potential acquisition, conducting thorough due diligence, financing the acquisition or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. Additionally, in connection with any acquisitions we complete, including Pardot and iGoDigital, we may not achieve the synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve, and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities that could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. If we finance future acquisitions using existing cash, as we did in large part for both the Pardot and iGoDigital acquisitions, the reduction of our available cash could cause us to face liquidity issues or cause other unanticipated problems in the future. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, the ownership interest of our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology could divert management and employee time and resources from other matters. We have been dependent on our clients’ use of email as a channel for digital marketing, and any decrease in the use of email for this purpose would harm our business, growth prospects, operating results and financial condition.Historically, our clients have primarily used our SaaS solutions for email-based digital marketing to consumers who have given our clients permission to send them emails. We expect that email will continue to be the primary channel used by our clients for the foreseeable future. Should our clients lose confidence in the value or effectiveness of email marketing, or if other digital channels are perceived to be more effective than email marketing, the demand for our solutions may decline. A number of factors could adversely affect our clients’ assessment of the value or effectiveness of email marketing, including continual growth in the number of emails consumers receive on a daily basis, the inability of ISPs to prevent unsolicited bulk email, or “spam,” from overwhelming consumers’ inboxes, security concerns regarding viruses, worms or similar problems affecting Internet and email utilization and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by ISPs that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. Various private spam blacklists have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our email products and our ability to conduct business.We depend on email to market to and communicate with our customers, and many of our customers rely on our email products to communicate with their customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company's Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those 15Table of Contentsaddresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity's service or purchases its blacklist.Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our products and services and communicate with our customers and could undermine the effectiveness of our customers' marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. The market for cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions is relatively new and emerging. If the market develops more slowly or differently than we expect, our business, growth prospects and financial condition would be adversely affected.The market for cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions, such as ours, is relatively new and may not achieve or sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. While email has been used successfully for digital marketing for several years, marketing via new digital marketing channels such as mobile and social media is not as well established, and revenue from email represents a substantial majority of our total revenue. The future growth of our business depends both on the acceptance and expansion of emerging digital marketing channels, as well as the continued use and growth of existing digital marketing channels, including email. Even if digital marketing through these channels becomes widely adopted, our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions may not continue to be utilized by our existing clients or we may not acquire new clients. Organizations may not make significant investments in cross-channel, digital marketing solutions and may not purchase SaaS solutions to address their digital marketing needs. If cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions are not widely adopted, or the market for such SaaS solutions does not develop as we expect, our business, growth prospects and financial condition would be adversely affected.Evolving domestic and international data privacy regulations may restrict our clients’ ability to solicit, collect, process, disclose and use personal information or may increase the costs of doing so, which could harm our business.Federal, state and foreign governments and supervising authorities have enacted, and may in the future enact, laws and regulations concerning the solicitation, collection, processing, disclosure or use of consumers’ personal information. Evolving and changing regulations regarding personal data and personal information, both within the European Union and elsewhere, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business. Such laws and regulations require or may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit consumers to access, correct or delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security incidents that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain consent to use personal information for certain purposes. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, impose additional requirements and prohibit the use of certain technologies, such as those that track individuals’ activities on web pages or record when individuals click on a link contained in an email message. Such laws and regulations could restrict our clients’ ability to collect and use email addresses, web browsing data and personal information, which may reduce demand for our solutions. Changing industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain data may have similar effects. For example, industry participants may adopt and implement, collectively through self-regulation or unilaterally, technologies that prevent our clients from collecting web browsing data and personal information from individuals, rendering our services less effective. Existing and potential future privacy and data protection laws and increasing sensitivity of consumers to unauthorized disclosures and use of personal information may also negatively affect the public’s perception of digital marketing, including marketing practices of our clients. If our solutions are perceived to cause, or are otherwise unfavorably associated with, invasions of privacy, whether or not illegal, we or our clients may be subject to public criticism. Public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may also cause some consumers to be less likely to visit our clients’ websites or otherwise interact with our clients, which could limit the demand for our solutions and inhibit the growth of our business. Any failure to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws, regulations, policies and standards or any inability to adequately address privacy concerns associated with our solutions, even if unfounded, could subject us to liability, damage our reputation, impair our sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs to our clients of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations, policies and standards may limit adoption of and demand for our solutions. If our security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to client data is otherwise obtained, our solutions may be perceived as not being secure, clients may curtail or cease their use of our solutions, our reputation may be harmed and we may incur significant liabilities.Our operations involve the storage and transmission of client and consumer data. Security incidents could result in unauthorized access to, loss of or unauthorized disclosure of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, which could damage our reputation, impair our sales and harm our business. Cyberattacks and other malicious Internet-based activity continue to increase, and SaaS-based platform providers of digital marketing services have been targeted. Our security measures and the contractual restraints we maintain to prevent our clients from loading sensitive health, personal and financial information into our SaaS platform may not be sufficient to prevent the storage of such information on our systems or to prevent our systems from being compromised. We do not regularly monitor or review the content that our clients upload and store and, therefore, do not control the substance of the content within our hosted 16Table of Contentsenvironment. If clients use our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable information and our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee or client error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liability. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems because they change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our client base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, we may become more of a target for third parties seeking to compromise our security systems or gain unauthorized access to our clients’ data. A failure or inability to meet clients’ expectations with respect to security and confidentiality could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to retain clients and attract new business. Many governments have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. In addition, some of our clients contractually require notification of any data security compromise. Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our clients or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode client confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new clients, cause existing clients to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to scale our infrastructure quickly enough to meet our clients’ growing needs and, even if we can, our operations may be disrupted or our operating results could be harmed.As usage of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions grows and as clients use our solutions for more advanced digital marketing programs, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our application architecture and our infrastructure to maintain our solutions’ performance. Any failure of or delays in our systems could cause service interruptions or impaired system performance. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to clients, result in decreased sales to new clients and lower renewal rates by existing clients, which could hurt our revenue growth and our reputation. We also may need to expand our hosting operations at a more rapid pace than we have in the past. This would involve spending substantial amounts to purchase or lease data center capacity and equipment, upgrade our technology and infrastructure and introduce new SaaS solutions. Similarly, our international expansion efforts could require us to use data centers located outside the United States. We may not be able to scale our existing systems in a manner that is satisfactory to our existing or prospective clients, especially those located outside the United States. In addition, any such expansion will require management time and support, could be expensive and complex, could result in inefficiencies, unsuccessful data transfers or operational failures, could reduce our margins and could adversely impact our financial results. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding our information technology systems. We cannot be sure that the improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all.Failures of the third-party hardware, software and infrastructure on which we rely, including third-party data center hosting facilities, could impair the delivery of our solutions and adversely affect our business.We rely on hardware and infrastructure, which is purchased or leased, and software licensed from third parties to offer our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions and related professional services. For example, we rely on bandwidth providers, ISPs, mobile providers and social networks to deliver messages to consumers on behalf of our clients. Any errors or defects in third-party hardware, software or infrastructure could result in errors, interruptions or a failure of our SaaS solutions. Furthermore, this hardware, software and infrastructure may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to use any of this hardware, software or infrastructure could limit access to our SaaS solutions. Our system hardware is primarily hosted in three third-party operated co-location facilities, with two located in Indianapolis, Indiana and one in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Pardot systems are hosted by a co-location provider located in Dallas, Texas and Seattle, Washington, and iGoDigital is hosted within Virginia and Northern California facilities. Although our network infrastructure is generally redundant in each of our data centers, our data storage and operational capabilities are not fully redundant across data centers. The owners and operators of these facilities do not guarantee that our clients’ access to our solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. We do not control the operation of these facilities, and such facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a tornado, earthquake, fire, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, power loss, 17Table of Contentstelecommunications failure or similar catastrophic events. They also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. If for any reason our arrangement with one or more of the third-party data centers we use is terminated, we could incur additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support. In addition, the failure of the data centers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in the availability of our SaaS solutions or impair the functionality of our SaaS solutions, which could adversely affect our business. Errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with the delivery of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions may reduce our revenue, harm our reputation and brand and adversely affect our contract renewals and our ability to attract new clients. In addition, some of our client agreements require us to issue credits for downtime in excess of certain thresholds, and in some instances give our clients the ability to terminate the agreements in the event of significant amounts of downtime. Our business, growth prospects and operating results will also be harmed if our clients and potential clients are not confident that our solutions are reliable. As we add data centers and increase capacity in data centers to accommodate increased demand, our costs and expenses associated with these efforts may adversely affect our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. The markets in which we participate are highly competitive, and pricing pressure or other competitive dynamics, which could include clients developing their own solutions, could adversely affect our business and operating results. The markets for digital marketing solutions are fragmented, highly competitive and rapidly changing. With the introduction of new technologies and potential new entrants into these markets, we expect competition to intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our margins. We provide digital marketing solutions to a broad array of clients, ranging from enterprises to small businesses. We have a number of competitors, which include but are not limited to Aprimo, Inc. (a subsidiary of Teradata Corporation), CheetahMail Inc. (a subsidiary of Experian Group Limited), e-Dialog Inc. (a subsidiary of eBay, Inc.), Eloqua Limited (a subsidiary of Oracle Corporation), Emailvision Holdings, Ltd., Epsilon Data Management, LLC (a subsidiary of Alliance Data Systems Corporation), Marketo, Inc., Responsys, Inc., Silverpop Systems Inc., StrongMail Systems, Inc., Unica Corporation (a subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation) and Yesmail (a division of infoGROUP Inc.). To a lesser degree, we compete with a number of email marketing providers focused on the small business market. We also face competition from social media marketing providers, such as Buddy Media, Inc. and Radian6 Technologies, Inc. (which were acquired by salesforce.com, inc. in 2012 and 2011, respectively), and from mobile marketing service providers, as well as from in-house solutions that our current and prospective clients may develop. We may also face competition from new companies entering our markets, which may include large established businesses, such as Adobe Systems Incorporated, Amazon.com, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc., SAP AG, Oracle Corporation or salesforce.com, inc., each of which currently offers, or may in the future offer, digital marketing or related applications such as applications for customer relationship management, analysis of Internet data, marketing automation, and social media marketing services. If these or other companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive digital marketing products or services, acquire one of our competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be compromised, and our operating results could be harmed. Furthermore, we believe that our industry may experience further consolidation, which could lead to increased competition and result in pricing pressure or loss of market share, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, limit our growth prospects or reduce our revenue. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services than we can, may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. In some cases, these companies may choose to offer digital marketing applications at little or no additional cost to the customer by bundling them with their existing applications. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions and related professional services could decline and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities and teams, we may not be able to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our SaaS solutions. Increasing our client base and achieving broader market acceptance of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions will depend on our ability to expand our sales and marketing teams and their capabilities to obtain new clients and sell additional products and services to existing clients. We believe there is significant competition for direct sales professionals with the skills and technical knowledge that we require, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future. Our ability to achieve significant future revenue growth will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they become fully productive, and may not become as productive as quickly as we anticipate. Our growth prospects will be 18Table of Contentsharmed if our efforts to expand, train and retain our direct sales team do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. In addition to our direct sales team, we also extend our global sales distribution through relationships with approximately 500 marketing service providers. These providers do not have exclusive relationships with us, and we cannot be certain that these partners will prioritize or provide adequate resources for selling our solutions. Establishing and retaining qualified partners and training them in our solutions requires significant time and resources. If we are unable to devote sufficient time and resources to establish and train these partners, or if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business could be adversely affected. Because our long-term growth strategy involves further expansion of our sales to clients outside the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. A key component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and client base internationally. We currently have offices outside of the United States in the United Kingdom, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, France and Sweden. As we continue to expand the sales of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions to clients outside the United States, our business will be increasingly susceptible to risks associated with international operations. Among the risks and challenges we believe are most likely to affect us with respect to international expansion are: •difficulties and expenses associated with the continued adoption of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions for international markets, including translation into foreign languages;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and the increased travel, real estate, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with international operations;•burdens of complying with applicable laws and regulations, including regional data privacy laws and anti-bribery laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•in some countries, a less-developed set of rules and infrastructure for online and mobile communications;•our ability to secure local communications and data center services and to successfully deliver communications to international ISPs and mobile carriers;•adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash;•currency exchange rate fluctuations;•generally longer receivable collection periods than in the United States; •differing employment practices and laws and the possibility of labor disruptions; •reluctance to allow data related to non-U.S. citizens to be stored in databases within the United States; •limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries;•difficulties in enforcing contracts;•difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems;•trade restrictions;•laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general preferences for local vendors;•lesser degrees of intellectual property protection;•political instability or terrorist activities;•legal systems subject to undue influence or corruption; •business cultures in which improper sales practices may be prevalent; and•continuing economic instability in Europe.We have a limited operating history outside the United States, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business. In addition, we have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions and services abroad, which increases the risk that our future expansion efforts will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business, operating results and reputation will be adversely affected. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot 19Table of Contentsbe certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish operations in other countries will result in adequate revenue and profitability levels.Our business could be adversely affected if our clients are not satisfied with our SaaS solutions, our implementation and integration of our solutions or our professional services.Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our clients and meet their business needs. If a client is unsatisfied, we could lose the client, we could incur additional costs to remedy the situation, or the profitability of our relationship with that client may be impaired. Negative publicity resulting from issues related to our client relationships, regardless of accuracy, may damage our business by adversely affecting our ability to attract new clients and maintain and expand our relationships with existing clients. In addition, supporting enterprise clients could require us to devote significant development services and support personnel, which could strain our team and infrastructure, and reduce our profit margins. If any of these were to occur, our revenue may decline, we may not realize future growth and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected.If we fail to respond to evolving technological requirements or to introduce adequate enhancements and new features, our SaaS solutions could become obsolete or less competitive.To remain a leading global provider of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions, we must continue to invest in research and development of new solutions and enhancements to our existing solutions. The introduction of new solutions by our competitors, the market acceptance of competitive solutions based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our solutions obsolete or less effective.Any new solution or feature that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner, may contain defects or may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. If we are unable to anticipate client requirements, successfully develop or acquire new solutions or features in a timely manner or enhance our existing solutions to meet our clients’ requirements, our business and operating results may be adversely affected.We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance.Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our common stock could decline.In addition to the other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: •changes in spending on digital marketing technologies by our current or prospective clients;•the volume of utilization above contracted levels for a particular quarter and the amount of any associated additional revenue earned;•client renewal rates, and the pricing and volume commitments at which agreements are renewed;•clients delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors;•budgeting cycles of our clients;•equity issuances, including as consideration in acquisitions; •network outages or security breaches and any associated expenses; •foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; •changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or clients;•long or delayed implementation times for new clients;•the amount and timing of operating expenses, particularly research and development and sales and marketing expenses (including commissions and bonuses associated with performance), unforeseen product execution costs, employee benefit expenses and expenses related to the expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure;•changes in the levels of our capital expenditures;•the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training and integrating new employees; and•failure to successfully manage any acquisitions or the occurrence of write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities in connection with acquisitions.20Table of ContentsWe may not be able to accurately forecast the amount and mix of future subscriptions, revenue and expenses and, as a result, our operating results may fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors.Because we recognize subscription revenue from our clients over the terms of their agreements and most of the costs associated with such agreements are incurred up front, rapid increases in new clients and expanding sales to existing clients may cause an adverse impact on our short-term operating income and cash flows and may cause our operating results to be difficult to predict.The majority of our subscription revenue in a quarter is derived from client agreements entered into in previous quarters. Significant selling activity in a quarter may result in little incremental recognized revenue and client cash receipts during that quarter, but results in the recognition of related commissions and sales and company bonuses due to immediate expense recognition. In addition, it takes several months to ramp up a professional services consultant to full productivity and, as a result, we generally must increase our professional services capacity ahead of the recognition of associated professional services revenue, which can result in lower margins in a period of significant hiring. The timing of revenue and expense recognition and associated cash flows may result in an adverse impact on our short-term operating income and cash flows and may also make it more difficult to accurately predict current quarter operating results. The resulting variations in our operating income, earnings per share, cash flows from operating activities and other financial metrics and non-financial metrics could harm the price of our common stock if they do not meet the expectations of the public market, securities analysts or investors. Shifts over time in the mix of sizes or types of organizations that purchase our solutions or changes in the types of solutions purchased by our clients could negatively affect our operating results.Our strategy is to sell our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions to organizations of all sizes. Our profit margins can vary depending on numerous factors, including the number of clients using our SaaS solutions, the complexity and frequency of their use, the level of utilization, the volume of messages sent, the amount of stored data and the level of professional services and support required by a client. For example, because our professional services offerings typically have a higher cost of revenue than subscriptions to our SaaS solutions, any increase in sales of professional services would likely have an adverse effect on our overall gross profit margin and operating results. Enterprise organizations generally require more professional services compared to small businesses and medium-sized companies and, as a result, the overall margin for our enterprise engagements may be lower. We supplement our internal professional services team with third parties to provide professional services, and our goal is to expand these relationships over time. If we are unable to expand our network of third-party service providers, or if we are unable to retain existing third-party service providers, some of which have accumulated valuable knowledge and experience with our solutions, we will likely have to expand our internal team to meet the needs of our clients, which could increase our operating costs and result in lower gross margins. If the mix of organizations that purchase our solutions changes, or the mix of solution components purchased by our clients changes, our profit margins could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. As the number of enterprise clients that we serve increases, we may encounter implementation challenges, and we may have to delay revenue recognition for some complex engagements, which would harm our business and operating results.We may face unexpected challenges with some enterprise clients or more complicated implementations of our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions with such clients. It may be difficult or expensive to implement our SaaS solutions if a client has unexpected data, hardware or software technology challenges, or complex or unanticipated business requirements. In addition, prospective enterprise clients may require acceptance testing related to implementation of our SaaS solutions. Implementation delays may also require us to delay revenue recognition until the technical or implementation requirements have been met. Any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation could cause clients to delay or forego future purchases of our solutions, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and the loss of one or more key employees could harm our business.Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team and other key employees, including in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing development professionals because of the complexity of our solutions. We may terminate any executive officer’s employment at any time, with or without cause, and any executive officer may resign at any time, with or without cause. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees could harm our business. 21Table of ContentsBecause competition for key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly-skilled employees we need to support our operations and future growth.Competition for executive officers, software developers and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for executive officers, for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining the professionals we need. Job candidates and existing employees often consider the actual and potential value of the equity awards they receive as part of their overall compensation. Thus, if the perceived value or future value of our stock declines, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees may be adversely affected. In addition, subject to black-out periods under our insider trading policy, many of our existing employees may exercise vested options and sell our stock, which may make it more difficult for us to retain key employees. If we fail to attract new employees or fail to retain and motivate our current employees, our business and future growth prospects could be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from clients in the retail and e-commerce, media and entertainment, travel and hospitality, financial services and insurance, internet and technology industries, and any downturn in these industries could harm our business. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from clients in the retail and e-commerce, media and entertainment, travel and hospitality, financial services and insurance, and internet and technology industries. Any downturn in any of these industries may cause our clients to reduce their spending on digital marketing solutions, delay or cancel digital marketing projects or seek to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us. Also, the increased pace of consolidation in any of these industries may result in reduced overall spending on our solutions. In particular, if our clients are acquired by entities that are not our clients, that use fewer of our solutions or that choose to discontinue, reduce or change the terms of their use of our solutions, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our sales cycle can be unpredictable, time-consuming and expensive, which could harm our business and operating results. Our sales efforts involve educating prospective clients and our existing clients about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our solutions. Some clients, particularly in the enterprise market, undertake a prolonged solution-evaluation process, which frequently involves not only our solutions but also those of our competitors. As we continue to pursue enterprise clients, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in completing such sales. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. It is also difficult to predict the level and timing of sales that come from our indirect sales channel of marketing service providers since these resellers do not exclusively sell our solutions. Events affecting our clients’ businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. Uncertain or weakened global economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Our overall performance depends on domestic and worldwide economic conditions, which may remain challenging for the foreseeable future. Financial developments seemingly unrelated to us or to our industry may adversely affect us. The U.S. economy and other key international economies have been impacted by threatened sovereign defaults and ratings downgrades, falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, threats to major multinational companies, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty. These conditions affect the rate of information technology spending and could adversely affect our clients’ ability or willingness to purchase our suite of cross-channel, digital marketing SaaS solutions and services, delay prospective clients’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions or affect renewal rates, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of the economic recovery or any subsequent economic slowdown worldwide, in the United States, or in our industry. Any violation of our policies or misuse of our SaaS solutions by our clients could damage our reputation and subject us to liability. Our clients could misuse our SaaS solutions by, among other things, transmitting negative messages or website links to harmful applications, sending unsolicited commercial email, reproducing and distributing copyrighted material without permission, reporting inaccurate or fraudulent data and engaging in illegal activity. Any such use of our suite of SaaS solutions could damage our reputation and could subject us to claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our clients may use our SaaS solutions to promote their products and services in violation of federal, state and foreign laws. We rely on contractual representations made to us by our clients that their use of our SaaS solutions will comply with our policies and applicable law, including, without limitation, our Anti-Spam Policy. Although we retain the right to review customer lists and emails to verify that clients are abiding by our policies, our clients are ultimately responsible for compliance with our policies, and we do not audit our clients to confirm compliance with our policies. We cannot predict whether the use of our SaaS solutions would expose us to liability under applicable laws or subject us to other regulatory action. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in 22Table of Contentsinvestigating and defending against such claims, or our reputation may be damaged. If we are found liable in connection with our clients’ activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign our SaaS solutions or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. Federal, state and foreign laws regulating email and text messaging marketing practices impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails and text messages, which could reduce the effectiveness of our solutions or increase our operating expenses to the extent these laws subject us to financial penalties. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. Among other things, the CAN-SPAM Act obligates each sender of commercial emails to allow recipients to opt-out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, the CAN-SPAM Act, regulations implemented by the Federal Communications Commission pursuant to the CAN-SPAM Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (also known as the Federal Do-Not-Call law) prohibit companies from sending specified types of commercial text messages unless the recipient has opted in to the receipt of such text messages. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email. In some cases, these laws are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act. For example, Utah and Michigan have enacted do-not-email registries to protect minors from receiving unsolicited commercial email marketing adult content and other products that minors are prohibited from obtaining. Whether such state laws are preempted in whole or in part by the CAN-SPAM Act is uncertain. Furthermore, certain foreign jurisdictions, such as Australia, Canada and the European Union, have also enacted laws that regulate email. Some of these laws are more restrictive than U.S. laws. As Internet commerce continues to evolve and grow, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments may become more likely. Federal, state or foreign jurisdictions may in the future enact laws or regulations restricting the ability to conduct digital marketing through mobile, social media and web channels. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses. We may be unable to pass along those costs to our clients in the form of increased subscription fees. If such restrictions require us to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, it could impair our ability to attract and retain clients or otherwise harm our business. Noncompliance with any existing or future laws and regulations may subject us to significant financial penalties. If we are found to have violated these laws or regulations or if our clients are found to have violated these laws or regulations, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and harm our reputation and our business. Regulation of the Internet and the lack of certainty regarding the application of existing laws to the Internet could substantially harm our operating results and business. We are subject to laws and regulations applicable to doing business over the Internet. It is often not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet, as these laws have in some cases failed to keep pace with technological change. Recently-enacted laws governing the Internet could also impact our business. For instance, existing and future regulations on taxing Internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our services. Furthermore, it is possible that governments of one or more countries may censor, limit or block certain users’ access to websites or other social media services. Changing industry standards and industry self-regulation regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain data may have similar effects. Any such adverse legal or regulatory developments could substantially harm our operating results and our business. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property, which may require us to incur significant costs. We rely on a combination of confidentiality obligations in contracts, patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and other contractual restrictions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In particular, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with all of our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have business relationships in which they will have access to our confidential information. No assurance can be given that these agreements or other steps we take to protect our intellectual property will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our solutions and our confidential and proprietary information. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized uses of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to copy our solutions and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Third parties may also independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our solutions. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our solutions may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our solutions and proprietary information may increase. 23Table of ContentsIn some cases, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to protect our trade secrets. Litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights and exposing us to significant damages or injunctions. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management’s attention and resources, could delay sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting less-advanced or more-costly technologies into our solutions or harm our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new solutions, and we cannot assure you that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We cannot be certain that any patents will be issued with respect to our current or potential patent applications. We have a number of patent applications pending in one or more jurisdictions and no issued patents. We do not know whether any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow the scope of our claims. To the extent any of our applications proceed to issuance as a patent, any such future patent may be opposed, contested, circumvented, designed around by a third party or found to be invalid or unenforceable. The process of seeking patent protection can be lengthy and expensive. Some of our technology is not covered by any patent or patent application. We have entered into a non-exclusive license that allows us to utilize methods covered by a business process patent held by a third party in providing our solutions, and our inability to maintain that license could have a material adverse effect on the functionality of our solutions, which would adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We have entered into a license agreement with Hula Holdings, LLC and Subscribermail, LLC (which was acquired by Harland Clarke Corp. in 2010) under which we have a non-exclusive license to use methods covered by a patent owned by Hula Holdings, LLC and licensed to Subscribermail, LLC for multi-level email methodology. The license will survive for the term of the patent, which will expire in 2021. If we were to lose the license for any reason, the functionality of our solutions may decline, which would have a material adverse effect on our revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Because the license is non-exclusive, our competitors may have access to this methodology. We may be sued by third parties for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights or for other intellectual property related claims. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in our industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. As a result, our success depends upon our not infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. Our competitors, as well as a number of other entities and individuals, may own or claim to own intellectual property relating to our industry. From time to time, we have received threatening letters or notices or may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others, and we may be found to be infringing upon such rights. For example, one company with which we have a license has asserted that it may be a violation of a sublicensing prohibition contained in that license for us to use our platform to provide services to customers through our reseller and agency partners. Any claims or litigation could cause us to incur significant expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could require that we pay substantial damages or ongoing royalty payments, prevent us from offering our solutions or require that we comply with other unfavorable terms. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and operating results. Indemnity provisions in our subscription agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. In our subscription agreements with our clients, we agree to indemnify our clients against any losses or costs incurred in connection with claims by a third party alleging that a client’s use of our services infringes the intellectual property rights of the third party. Companies in the software industry, including those that provide SaaS solutions, frequently face infringement threats from non-practicing organizations (sometimes referred to as “patent trolls”) filing lawsuits for patent infringement. A number of our clients have notified us of claims brought against them for infringement by such a patent troll and most of those clients have requested indemnification or indicated that they may seek redress from us under the indemnification provisions of our contracts with them. Other clients facing infringement claims who are accused of infringement may in the future seek indemnification from us under the terms of our contracts. If such claims are successful, or if we are required to indemnify or 24Table of Contentsdefend our clients from these or other claims, these matters could be disruptive to our business and management and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We use open source software in our solutions, which may subject us to litigation or other actions that could adversely affect our business. We use open source software in our solutions and may use more open source software in the future. In the past, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. If we were to use open source software subject to such licenses, we could be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales or take other remedial action, any of which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to integrate our SaaS solutions with certain third-party applications, the functionality of our solutions could be adversely affected. The functionality of our solutions depends on our ability to integrate them with third-party applications and data management systems used by our clients to obtain consumer data. In addition, we rely on access to third-party APIs to provide our social media channel offerings through social media platforms. Third-party providers of marketing applications and APIs may change the features of their applications and platforms, restrict our access to their applications and platforms or alter the terms governing use of their applications and APIs and access to those applications and platforms in a manner adverse to us, including by charging higher fees. Such changes could limit our ability to integrate or could prevent us from integrating our software with these third-party applications and platforms, which could impair the functionality of our software and harm our business. Further, if we fail to integrate our software with new third-party applications and platforms that our clients use for marketing purposes, or if we fail to adapt to the data transfer requirements of such third-party applications and platforms, demand for our solutions could decrease, which would harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carry-forwards, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. As of December 31, 2012, we had $79.0 million of net operating loss carry-forwards and $40.6 million of net operating loss carry-forwards from unrecognized stock option exercise deductions. Utilization of these net operating loss carry-forwards depends on many factors, including our future income, which cannot be assured. Our loss carry-forwards begin to expire in 2029. In addition, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carry-forwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. Although we have undergone one or more ownership changes as a result of prior financings, we believe that any such change in ownership and the corresponding annual limitation likely will not prevent us from using our current net operating losses in any significant or material way. However, future ownership changes or future regulatory changes could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards. To the extent we are not be able to offset our future income against our net operating loss carry-forwards, this would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us or our clients, which could increase the costs of our solutions and adversely impact our business. The application of federal, state, local and international tax laws to services and products provided electronically is evolving. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time (possibly with retroactive effect), and could be applied solely or disproportionately to services and products provided over the Internet or via email, which could discourage the use of the Internet and email as a means of commercial marketing, adversely affecting the viability of our solutions. These enactments could adversely affect our sales activity due to the inherent cost increase the taxes would represent and ultimately result in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in collecting required taxes from our clients, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results and cash flows. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us or our clients to pay additional tax amounts, as well as require us or our clients to pay fines or penalties and interest for past amounts. For example, if tax authorities reclassify as employees the third-party professional services consultants we engage as independent contractors, we may be subject to retroactive taxes and penalties for failure to withhold federal or state income tax or Federal Insurance Contributions Act payments, and failure to provide workers’ compensation insurance with respect to such third-party professional services consultants. 25Table of ContentsWe are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions.As a multinational organization, we may be subject to taxation in various jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations. As a public company, our business is subject to regulations regarding corporate governance, disclosure controls, internal control over financial reporting and other compliance areas that increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance with applicable laws. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”). Being subject to these rules and regulations has increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and also placed significant additional strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2013, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and, if we are no longer an “emerging growth company” under the JOBS Act, our independent registered public accounting firm, to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our Form 10-K filing for such year, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This will require us to incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We have never been required to test our internal controls within a specified period, and, as a result, we may experience difficulty in meeting these reporting requirements in a timely manner, particularly if material weaknesses or significant deficiencies are found. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. There may be limitations on the effectiveness of our controls and the failure of our control systems may materially and adversely impact us. We do not expect that disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, will be detected. Implementing any required changes to our disclosure controls or internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing accounting systems and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our controls. Failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In the event that our disclosure controls or internal controls are perceived as inadequate or that we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results which could cause our stock price to decline. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Financial accounting standards may change or their interpretation may change. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change becomes effective. Changes to existing rules or the re-examining of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Accounting for revenue from sales of our solutions is particularly complex, is often the subject of intense scrutiny by the SEC, and will evolve as the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) continues to consider applicable accounting standards in this area. 26Table of ContentsWe may not be able to secure sufficient additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. In the future, we may require additional capital to pursue business opportunities or acquisitions or respond to challenges and unforeseen circumstances. We may also decide to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons. We may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing in a timely manner, on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing we obtain in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. The holders of approximately 37% of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2012 have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our stockholders. If these holders exercise such registration rights and require us to include their shares in a registration statement that we propose to file, and the managing underwriter advises us that the inclusion of all shares requested by the holders would interfere with the successful marketing of the securities in such registration, the securities to be included in such registration are to be allocated to the holders first and the number of shares we propose to sell would be reduced. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. We rely heavily on our network infrastructure and information technology systems for our business operations. A disruption or failure of these systems in the event of a tornado, earthquake, fire, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other similar catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, delays in the delivery of our clients’ digital marketing communications, reputational harm and loss of critical data, or could prevent us from providing our digital marketing solutions to our clients. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of the data centers in which our system software is co-located, or our network infrastructure or information technology systems, could affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to the Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other risk factors described herein, these factors include: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other operating results; •the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance, our failure to meet any such guidance or any changes in analysts' recommendations; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of software or other technology companies, particularly companies in our industry; •the addition or loss of significant clients; •changes in key personnel; •the issuance of shares of common stock by us, whether in connection with an acquisition or a capital raising transaction;•sales of our common stock by directors, executive officers, or significant stockholders;•fluctuations in the trading volume of our common stock or the size of our public float; •announcements by us with regard to the effectiveness of our internal controls and our ability to accurately report our financial results; •price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; •general economic, legal, regulatory and market conditions unrelated to our performance; •lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and •other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.The stock markets have experienced extreme fluctuations in price and trading volume that have caused and will likely continue to cause the stock prices of many technology companies to fluctuate in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of 27Table of Contentsdeclining stock prices. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, we could face substantial costs and be forced to divert resources and the attention of management from our business, which could adversely affect our business. If securities or industry analysts do not continue to publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. Securities and industry analysts only recently began to cover us and may cease to do so. If securities or industry analysts cease to cover our company, the trading price of our stock could decline. A downgrade of our stock or the publication of inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business would likely cause our stock price to decline. If one or more of these analysts cease to cover our company or fail to publish reports about us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. We may in the future issue additional equity securities, which may have a dilutive effect on your investment. We may issue shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock from time to time in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in ownership dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Moreover, any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company”, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we will take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years from March 21, 2012, the date of our initial public offering, or until the earliest of (i) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues exceed $1 billion, (ii) the date that we become a “large accelerated filer” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act, which would occur at the end of the fiscal year during which the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates is at least $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter, or (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three year period. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of such exemptions, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price and trading volume may decline. Under Section 107(b) of the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies may delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that our stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: •our board of directors is divided into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; •our board of directors has the right to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or due to the resignation or departure of an existing board member; •our directors are not elected by cumulative voting; cumulative voting would allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •advance notice of nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders meeting is required; •our board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; •our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, certain rights of which could be senior to those of our common stock; •stockholders do not have the right to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; 28Table of Contents•approval of at least two thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors is required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, our amended and restated bylaws or the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors; and •directors may be removed from office only for cause. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”). In general, Section 203 prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for three years following the time that such stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A “business combination” includes, among other things, a merger, asset or stock sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the interested stockholder. An “interested stockholder” is a person who, together with affiliates and associates, owns, or did own, within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status, 15% or more of a corporation’s voting stock. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, particularly those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and the DGCL could discourage potential takeover attempts, could reduce the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and could potentially result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it otherwise would be. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders collectively own approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock and continue to have control over the company. As of December 31, 2012, our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 52% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to substantially influence our management and affairs. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the company; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the company. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. 29Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.