ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report or Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may differ materially from those anticipated in forward looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may be unable to maintain profitability. We reported net income of $8.0 million and $14.6 million for the years ending December 31, 2014 and 2015, respectively. However, given our operating history, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain this profitability in the future. Our growth in revenue and customer base may not be sustainable, and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, unforeseen expenses, operating difficulties, complications and delays or due to the other risks described in this report. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain our profitability, and we may incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or guidance may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: • our ability to renew existing customers, increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance and expansion of our business; • service outages or security breaches; • whether we meet the service level commitments in our agreements with our customers; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • our ability to successfully implement strategic business model changes; • the timing and success of new application and service introductions and upgrades by us or our competitors; • changes in sales compensation plans or organizational structure; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • seasonal variations or other cyclicality in the demand for our services; • general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; 10 Table of Contents • litigation, including class action litigation, involving our company, our services, or our general industry; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; • the financial condition of our customers; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist acts. We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance. If our services or computer systems are breached our customers may be harmed, our reputation may be damaged and we may be exposed to significant liabilities. Our services and computer systems store and transmit confidential data of our customers and their customers, which may include credit card information, account and device information, passwords and other critical data. Any breach of the cybersecurity measures we have taken to safeguard this information may subject us to fines and penalties, time consuming and expensive litigation, trigger indemnification obligations and other contractual liabilities, damage our reputation and harm our customers and our business. Cyber-attacks from computer hackers and cyber criminals and other malicious Internet-based activity continue to increase generally, and our services and systems, including the systems of our outsourced service providers, have been and may in the future continue to be the target of various forms of cyber-attacks such as DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, malicious software, application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing attempts, backdoor trojans and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. The techniques used by computer hackers and cyber criminals to obtain unauthorized access to data or to sabotage computer systems change frequently and generally are not detected until after an incident has occurred. While we make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our services and computer systems, our cybersecurity measures and the cybersecurity measures taken by our third-party data center facilities may be unable to anticipate, detect or prevent all attempts to compromise our systems. If our cybersecurity measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee or customer error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liabilities. Many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach may be costly to comply with and may lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our cybersecurity measures. Additionally, some of our customer contracts require us to notify customers in the event of a security breach and/or indemnify customers from damages they may incur as a result of a breach of our services and computer systems. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability provisions in our contracts for a security breach would be enforceable or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims related to a breach of our services or computer systems. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed our available insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business strategy includes acquiring or investing in other companies, which may ultimately fail to meet our expectations, divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and disrupt our business and operating results. As part of our business strategy, we periodically make acquisitions of, or strategic investments in, complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property rights and we expect that we will continue to make such acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky and negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, 11 Table of Contents these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. In connection with an acquisition, investment or strategic transaction we may do one or more of the following, which may harm our business and adversely affect our operating results: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders and decrease our earnings per share; • use cash and other resources that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; and • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Following an acquisition, the integration of an acquired company may cost more than we anticipate and we may be subject to unforeseen liabilities arising from an acquired company’s past or present operations. These liabilities may be greater than the warranty and indemnity limitations we negotiate. Any unforeseen liability that is greater than these warranty and indemnity limitations could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Some of the additional risks associated with integrating acquired companies may include, but are not limited to: • difficulties and delays integrating the employees, culture, technologies, products and systems of the acquired companies; • an uncertain revenue and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could dilute our earnings; • being subject to unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company’s practices; • difficulties retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise; • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; • the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; • undetected errors or unauthorized use of a third-party’s code in products of the acquired companies; • unforeseen or unanticipated legal liabilities which are not discovered by due diligence during the acquisition process, including stockholder litigation related to the acquisition, third party intellectual property claims or claims for potential violations of applicable law, rules and regulations, arising from prior or ongoing acts or omissions by the acquired businesses; • entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions and which are highly competitive; and • assuming pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business. If we fail to successfully integrate and manage the companies and technologies we acquire, or if an acquisition does not further our business strategy as we expect, our operating results will be adversely affected. Even if successfully integrated, there can be no assurance that any of our acquisitions or future acquisitions will be successful in helping us achieve our financial and strategic goals. A significant portion of our historical revenues have come from our remote access and support products and any decline in sales for these products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. A significant portion of our annual revenues have historically come from our remote access and remote support business and we continue to anticipate that sales of our remote access and remote support products will constitute a majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Any decline or variability in sales of our remote access and remote support products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Declines and variability in sales of these products could potentially occur as a result of: • the growing use of mobile devices such as smartphones and tablet computers to perform functions that have been traditionally performed on desktops and laptops, resulting in less demand for these types of remote access products; 12 Table of Contents • the introduction of new or alternative technologies, products or service offerings by competitors; • our failure to innovate or introduce new product offerings, features and enhancements; • potential market saturation or our inability to enter into new markets; • increased price and product competition; • dissatisfied customers; or • general weak economic, industry or market conditions. If sales of our remote access and remote support products decline as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may not be able to capitalize on potential emerging market opportunities, like the Internet of Things, and new services that we introduce may not generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated, which may adversely affect our business. Our business strategy involves identifying emerging market opportunities which we can capitalize on by successfully developing and introducing new services designed to address those market opportunities. We have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development in an effort to capitalize on potential emerging market opportunities that we have identified. One such emerging market which we have identified is the Internet of Things, or IoT, and we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in our Xively IoT platform. However, emerging markets and opportunities often take time to fully develop and attract a significant number of competitors. If the emerging markets we have targeted, such as the IoT, ultimately fail to materialize as we or others have anticipated or if potential customers choose to adopt solutions offered by our competitors rather than our own, we may not be able to generate the revenue and earnings we anticipated and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. Assertions by a third party that our services and solutions infringe its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses. There is frequent litigation in the software and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to third party patent infringement or other intellectual property-related lawsuits as we face increasing competition and become increasingly visible. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, and although we have previously licensed proprietary technology, we cannot be certain that the owners’ rights in such technology will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For these reasons and because of the potential for court awards that are difficult to predict, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. In addition, many of our service agreements require us to indemnify our customers from certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, deter future customers from subscribing to our services or expose us to further litigation. These costs, monetary or otherwise, associated with defending against third party allegations of infringement could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. For additional information please refer to Part I, Item 3 entitled “Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements. If our services are used to commit fraud or other similar intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Certain services we provide enable direct remote access to third-party computer systems. We do not control the use or content of information accessed by our customers through our services. If our services are used to commit fraud or other bad or illegal acts, including, but not limited to, posting, distributing or transmitting any 13 Table of Contents software or other computer files that contain a virus or other harmful component, interfering or disrupting third-party networks, infringing any third party’s copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights or rights of publicity or privacy, transmitting any unlawful, harassing, libelous, abusive, threatening, vulgar or otherwise objectionable material, or accessing unauthorized third-party data, we may become subject to claims for defamation, negligence or intellectual property infringement and subject to other potential liabilities. As a result, defending such claims could be expensive and time-consuming, and we could incur significant liability to our customers and to individuals or businesses who were the targets of such acts. As a result, our business may suffer and our reputation may be damaged. We depend on search engines to attract a significant percentage of our customers, and if those search engines change their listings or increase their pricing, it would limit our ability to attract new customers. Many of our customers locate our website through search engines, such as Google. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings, and we rely on both types. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize search result listings. If the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, fewer potential customers may click through to our website, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace this traffic. Any failure to replace this traffic could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. In addition, costs for purchased listings have increased in the past and may increase in the future, and further increases could have negative effects on our financial condition. If we are unable to attract new customers to our services on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. We must continue to attract a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used cloud-based, remote-connectivity solutions. We rely on a variety of marketing methods to attract new customers to our services, such as paying providers of online services and search engines for advertising space and priority placement of our website in response to Internet searches. Our ability to attract new customers also depends on the competitiveness of the pricing of our services. If our current marketing initiatives are not successful or become unavailable, if the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase, or if our competitors offer similar services at lower prices, we may not be able to attract new customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We sell our services pursuant to agreements that are generally one year in duration. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their subscription period expires, and these subscriptions may not be renewed on the same or on more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to grow depends in part on subscription renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. If we fail to convert our free users to paying customers, our revenue and financial results will be harmed. A significant portion of our user base utilizes our services free of charge through our free services or free trials of our premium services. We seek to convert these free and trial users to paying customers of our premium services. If our rate of conversion suffers for any reason, our revenue may decline and our business may suffer. 14 Table of Contents If our efforts to build a strong brand identity are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain subscribers and our operating results may be adversely affected. We believe that building and maintaining a strong brand identity plays an important role in attracting and retaining subscribers to our services, who may have other options from which to obtain their remote connectivity services. In order to build a strong brand, we believe that we must continue to offer innovative remote connectivity services that our subscribers value and enjoy using, and also market and promote those services through effective marketing campaigns, promotions and communications with our user base. From time-to-time, subscribers may express dissatisfaction with our services or react negatively to our strategic business decisions, such as changes that we make in pricing, features or service offerings, including the discontinuance of our free services. To the extent that user dissatisfaction with our services or strategic business decisions is widespread or not adequately addressed, our overall brand identity may suffer and as a result our ability to attract and retain subscribers may be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our operating results. The markets in which we participate are competitive, with low barriers to entry, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed. The markets for remote-connectivity solutions are competitive and rapidly changing, with relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance. Often we compete against existing services that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to acquire and implement. Certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower priced, or free, products or services that compete with our services. This competition may result in reduced prices and a substantial loss of customers for our services or a reduction in our revenue. Many of our services directly compete with large, established competitors like Citrix Systems’ GoTo division and WebEx (a division of Cisco Systems), and certain of our services also compete with current or potential services offered by companies like Adobe, AgileBits, Apple, Ayla Networks, BlueJeans Networks, Box, Dashlane, Dropbox, GFI, Google, IBM, KeePass, LivePerson, Microsoft, OKTA, Oracle, PTC, Splashtop, TeamViewer and Zoom Video Communications. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships, access to larger customer bases and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. In November 2015, Citrix Systems announced plans to spin-off its GoTo division. The impact of such a spin-off remains to be determined and may result in uncertainty in the markets in which we compete. If we are not able to compete effectively for any of these reasons, our operating results will be harmed. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive service than they individually had offered. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the companies driving this trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary services and technologies. The companies resulting from such combinations may create more compelling service offerings and may offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a substantial loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes in time to address the needs of our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The cloud-based remote-connectivity services market is characterized by rapid technological change, the frequent introduction of new services and evolving industry standards. Our ability to remain competitive will depend in large part on our ability to continue to enhance our existing services and develop new service offerings that keep pace with the market’s rapid technological developments. Additionally, to achieve market acceptance for our services, we must effectively anticipate and offer services that meet changing customer demands in a timely manner. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current services do not have. If we fail to develop services that satisfy customer requirements in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew our services with existing customers and our ability to create or increase demand for our services will be harmed and our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We use a limited number of data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. The majority of our services are hosted from third-party data center facilities located throughout the world. We do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. At least one of our data facilities is located in an area known for seismic activity, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Failure to comply with credit card processing standards may cause us to lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option, which would increase our costs of processing customer orders and make our services less attractive to our customers, the majority of which purchase our services with a credit card. Major credit card issuers have adopted credit card processing standards and have incorporated these standards into their contracts with us. If we fail to maintain our compliance with the credit card processing and documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers and applicable to us, these issuers could terminate their agreements with us, and we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Most of our individual and SMB customers purchase our services online with a credit card, and our business depends substantially upon our ability to offer the credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would make our services less attractive to them and hurt our business. Our administrative costs related to customer payment processing would also increase significantly if we were not able to accept credit card payments for our services. Evolving regulations and legal obligations related to data privacy, data protection and information security and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations, could have an adverse effect on our business. Our handling of the data we collect from our customers, as further described in our privacy policy, and our processing of personally identifiable information and data of our customers’ customers through the services we provide, is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, which have been adopted by various federal, state and 16 Table of Contents foreign governments to regulate the collection, distribution, use and storage of personal information of individuals. Several foreign countries in which we conduct business, including the European Union and Canada, currently have in place, or have recently proposed, laws or regulations concerning privacy, data protection and information security, which are more restrictive than those imposed in the United States. Some of these laws are in their early stages and we cannot yet determine the impact these revised laws and regulations, if implemented, may have on our business. However, any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these privacy laws, regulations, policies or obligations or any security incident that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data in our possession, could result in government enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties and/or adverse publicity, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We have in the past relied on the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Safe Harbor Privacy Principles and compliance with the U.S.-EU and U.S.-Swiss Safe Harbor Frameworks as a means for legitimizing the transfer of personally identifiable information from the European Economic Area, or EEA, to the United States. However, in October 2015, the European Union Court of Justice, or ECJ, ruled that the U.S. – EU Safe Harbor Framework is no longer deemed to be a valid method of transfer of data outside of the EEA. In response to the ECJ’s opinion, we have been working to implement alternative methods to transfer data from the EEA to the U.S. However, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in establishing an acceptable means for the transfer of data from the EEA. Data protection regulation remains an area of increased focus in all jurisdictions and data protection regulations continue to evolve. There is no assurance that we will be able to meet new requirements that may be imposed on the transfer of personally identifiable information from the EU to the U.S. without incurring substantial expense or at all. European and/or multi-national customers may be reluctant to purchase or continue to use our services due to concerns regarding their data protection obligations. In addition, we may be subject to claims, legal proceedings or other actions by individuals or governmental authorities if they have reason to believe that our data privacy or security measures fail to comply with current or future laws and regulations. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants under our credit facility; any failure to comply with those covenants could cause amounts borrowed under the facility to become immediately due and payable or prevent us from borrowing under the facility. Our credit facility, which consists of a $150 million secured revolving loan (and which may be increased by an additional $50 million if the existing or additional lenders are willing to make such increased commitments) which is available through February 18, 2020, at which time any amounts outstanding will be due and payable in full. As of February 19, 2016, we had drawn $60 million under the credit facility. We may wish to borrow additional amounts under the facility in the future for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, the potential acquisition of complementary products or businesses, share repurchases, as well as for working capital. We are required to comply with certain financial and operating covenants which limit our ability to operate our business as we otherwise might operate it. Our failure to comply with any of these covenants or to meet any payment obligations under the facility could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would result in any amounts outstanding, including any accrued interest and unpaid fees, becoming immediately due and payable. We might not have sufficient working capital or liquidity to satisfy any repayment obligations in the event of an acceleration of those obligations. In addition, if we are not in compliance with the financial and operating covenants at the time we wish to borrow additional funds, we will be unable to borrow such funds. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. For the last three fiscal years, our revenue has grown from $166.3 million in 2013 to $222.0 million in 2014 and to $271.6 million in 2015. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations both domestically and internationally. Creating a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and 17 Table of Contents management controls and our reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross profit or operating expenses in any particular quarter. The loss of key employees or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our executive management team as well as other key technical and sales employees. These key employees are not party to an employment agreement with us, and they may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of these key employees likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these key employees may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, software and manufacturing companies. For example, our competitors may be able attract and retain a more qualified engineering team by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new engineers and retain our current engineers, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenues would decrease. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. We currently maintain offices and have sales personnel outside of the United States and are expanding our international operations. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: • localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; • lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added or other tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 18 Table of Contents Failure to effectively and efficiently service SMBs would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenue. We market and sell a significant amount of our services to SMBs. SMBs are challenging to reach, acquire and retain in a cost-effective manner. To grow our revenue quickly, we must add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions. Selling to and retaining SMBs is more difficult than selling to and retaining large enterprise customers because SMB customers generally: • have high failure rates; • are price sensitive; • are difficult to reach with targeted sales campaigns; • have high churn rates in part because of the scale of their businesses and the ease of switching services; and • generate less revenue per customer and per transaction. In addition, SMBs frequently have limited budgets and may choose to spend funds on items other than our services. Moreover, SMBs are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established companies, and if these organizations experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on IT. If we are unable to market and sell our services to SMBs with competitive pricing and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to grow our revenue quickly and become profitable will be harmed. Original equipment manufacturers may adopt solutions provided by our competitors. Original equipment manufacturers may in the future seek to build the capability for remote-connectivity solutions into their products. We may compete with our competitors to sell our services to, or partner with, these manufacturers. Our ability to attract and partner with these manufacturers will, in large part, depend on the competitiveness of our services. If we fail to attract or partner with, or our competitors are successful in attracting or partnering with, these manufacturers, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Our internal controls over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report from our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have documented, tested and improved, to the extent necessary, our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2015. If in the future we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if as part of our process of documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting, we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies or areas for further attention and improvement, implementing appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our services to new and existing customers. 19 Table of Contents We provide minimum service level commitments to some of our customers, the failure of which to meet could cause us to issue credits for future services or pay penalties, which could significantly harm our revenue. Some of our customer agreements now, and may in the future, provide minimum service level commitments regarding items such as uptime, functionality or performance. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments for these customers or our services suffer extended periods of unavailability, we are or may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future services or pay other penalties. Our revenue could be significantly impacted if we are unable to meet our service level commitments and are required to provide a significant amount of our services at no cost or pay other penalties. We do not currently have any reserves on our balance sheet for these commitments. If we do not effectively expand and train our work force, our future operating results will suffer. We plan to continue to expand our work force both domestically and internationally to increase our customer base and revenue. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our recruiting, training and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed. Our sales cycles for enterprise customers can be long, unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The timing of our revenue from sales to enterprise customers is difficult to predict. These efforts require us to educate our customers about the use and benefit of our services, including the technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Enterprise customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle, typically several months. We spend substantial time, effort and money on our enterprise sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, service subscriptions are frequently subject to budget constraints and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our results could fall short of public expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Adverse economic conditions or reduced IT spending may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Our business depends on the overall demand for IT and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. The use of our service is often discretionary and may involve a commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions in the United States, European Union and other key international economies may affect the rate of IT spending and could adversely impact our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our services, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect renewal rates, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. In addition, we have have thirteen issued patents and eleven patents pending, and we are in the process of filing additional patents. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not 20 Table of Contents prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technologies we license incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate additional open source software in the future. Open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our services that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our services that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. We rely on third-party software, including server software and licenses from third parties to use patented intellectual property that is required for the development of our services, which may be difficult to obtain or which could cause errors or failures of our services. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer our services, including server software from Microsoft and patented third-party technology. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our services, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software required for the development and maintenance of our services could result in delays in the provision of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our services which could harm our business. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our services, and new errors in our existing services may be detected in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: • a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; • sales credits or refunds to our customers; • loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; 21 Table of Contents • diversion of development resources; • harm to our reputation; and • increased insurance costs. After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and of the international exchange of certain technologies is subject to possible unfavorable changes, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business and operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. Our software products contain encryption technologies, certain types of which are subject to U.S. and foreign export control regulations and, in some foreign countries, restrictions on importation and/or use. We have submitted our encryption products for technical review under U.S. export regulations and have received the necessary approvals. Any failure on our part to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could result in financial penalties or other sanctions under the U.S. export regulations, which could harm our business and operating results. Foreign regulatory restrictions could impair our access to technologies that we seek for improving our products and services and may also limit or reduce the demand for our products and services outside of the United States. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for our subscription services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. Primarily due to the nature of our services in certain states and countries, we do not believe we are required to collect sales or other related taxes from our customers in certain states or countries. However, one or more other states or countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales by us or our resellers and other partners. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our services or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Our business is substantially dependent on market demand for, and acceptance of, the cloud-based model for the use of software. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from the sale of cloud-based services. As a result, widespread acceptance and use of the cloud-based business model is critical to our future growth and success. Under the perpetual or periodic license model for software procurement, users of the software typically run applications on their hardware. Because companies are generally predisposed to maintaining control of their IT systems and infrastructure, there may be resistance to the concept of accessing the functionality that software provides as a service through a third party. If the market for cloud-based, software solutions ceases to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our services could be negatively affected. 22 Table of Contents Our success depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the Internet and the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. Because our services are designed to work over the Internet, our revenue growth depends on our customers’ high-speed access to the Internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the Internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our services will depend on third-party Internet service providers to expand high-speed Internet access, to maintain a reliable network with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and to develop complementary products and services, including high-speed modems, for providing reliable and timely Internet access and services. The success of our business depends directly on the continued accessibility, maintenance and improvement of the Internet as a convenient means of customer interaction, as well as an efficient medium for the delivery and distribution of information by businesses to their employees. All of these factors are out of our control. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any future Internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in our services could reduce our ability to compete successfully. We may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to pay dividends or make distributions, incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our services; • continue to expand our development, sales and marketing organizations; • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; • expand our operations, in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our stock price may be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop in the future. During the period from our IPO in July 2009 through February 16, 2016, our common stock has traded as high as $75.42 and as low as $15.15. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • fluctuations in our recorded revenue, even during periods of significant sales order activity; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of companies perceived to be similar to us; • announcements regarding changes to our current or planned products or services; 23 Table of Contents • success of competitive companies, products or services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant new services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • litigation, including stockholder litigation and/or class action litigation, involving our company, our services or our general industry, as well as announcements regarding developments in on-going litigation matters; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general perception of the future of the remote-connectivity market or our services; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that such existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they publish a negative report or change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us or may cover us in the future publish a negative report or change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us or may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our management has broad discretion over the use of our existing cash resources and might not use such funds in ways that increase the value of our common stock. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to use our cash resources. Our management might not apply these cash resources in ways that increase the value of our common stock. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on the value of their shares of our common stock. 24 Table of Contents As a public company, we incur significant additional costs which could harm our operating results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically. We expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. Certain stockholders could attempt to influence changes within the Company which could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Our stockholders may from time-to-time seek to acquire a controlling stake in our company, engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting our operations and diverting the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. These actions could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings; • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding 25 Table of Contents common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 