D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Form 20-F before making a decision to invest in our units. Risks Related to Our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and, accordingly, you will not have any basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a recently incorporated development stage company with no operating results to date. Since we do not have an operating history, you will have no basis upon which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective, which is to acquire an operating business. We will not generate any revenues until, at the earliest, after the consummation of a business combination. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would liquidate. Pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association, we have until January 29, 2010 in which to complete a business combination (or until July 29, 2010 if we have entered into a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by January 29, 2010 and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated by January 29, 2010, or, if extended pursuant to a shareholder vote as described in this Annual Report, until July 29, 2011). If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, our corporate existence will, in accordance with our memorandum and articles of incorporation, cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination. Unlike many other blank check companies, we are permitted, pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association, to seek to extend the date before which we must complete an initial business combination to 36 months. As a result, your funds may be held in the trust account for at least three years. Unlike many other blank check companies, if we have entered into a letter of intent, memorandum of understanding, agreement in principle or definitive agreement by January 29, 2010, we may seek to extend the date before which we must complete our business combination, to avoid being required to liquidate, beyond the more typical 24 months to 36 months by calling a special meeting of our shareholders for the purpose of soliciting their approval for such extension. We believe that an extension could be necessary due to the circumstances involved in the evaluation and closing of a business combination in the ROK or PRC, including obtaining audited U.S. GAAP financial statements of potential targets that have previously kept their accounts in accordance with Korean or Chinese GAAP, the possible need for restructuring and reorganizing corporate entities and assets and the requirements of complex Korean or Chinese regulatory filings and approvals. Without the option of extending to 36 months, if we enter into such agreement near January 29, 2010, we would have only until July 29, 2010 to accomplish the necessary accounting reconciliations, satisfy U.S. and the ROK or PRC regulatory requirements, secure the approval of our shareholders and provide for customary closing conditions. If the proposal for the extension is approved by our shareholders, we will have an additional 12 months beyond the more usual 24-month period with which to complete our initial business combination. As a result, investors’ funds may be held in the trust account for more than three years from the IPO and thus delay the receipt by you of your funds from the trust account on redemption or liquidation. 4 Table of Contents We are not required to file our proxy statement for our initial business combination with the SEC pursuant to the proxy rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Exchange Act”), relating to the furnishing and content of proxy statements. We have agreed with the representative of the underwriters in our IPO that until the earlier of our liquidation or the successful consummation of our initial business combination, in connection with any proposed business combination, we will deliver to our shareholders proxy solicitation materials containing the information we believe would have been required to be provided to shareholders had we not been a foreign private issuer but still had a class of equity securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act and we will file with the SEC a Report of Foreign Private Issuer on Form 6-K with the material terms of the proxy solicitation material. As a foreign private issuer, however, we are not required and do not intend to file our proxy solicitation materials with the SEC for review or comment. Therefore, the SEC will not review the proxy solicitation materials for our initial business combination. Because there are numerous companies with a business plan similar to ours seeking to effectuate a business combination, it may be more difficult for us to do so. There are numerous similarly structured blank check companies which have completed initial public offerings with business plans similar to ours and there are a number of additional offerings for blank check companies that are still in the registration process but have not completed initial public offerings. While some of those companies must complete a business combination in specific industries, a number of them may consummate a business combination in any industry they choose. Therefore, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business plan similar to ours. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time periods. If the funds available to us are insufficient to allow us to operate until at least July 29, 2011, we may be unable to complete a business combination. Of the net proceeds of the IPO, only $50,000 was available to us initially outside the trust account to fund our working capital requirements. We depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with additional working capital of up to $1.7 million which we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination, as well as the funds required to pay any tax obligations that we may owe. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes certain interest earned on the funds in the trust account, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow funds from our founders to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Our founders are under no obligation to advance funds in such circumstances. We believe that the funds available to us outside of the trust account, plus the interest earned on the funds held in the trust account that may be available to us, will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least July 29, 2011, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. However, our estimates may not be accurate. We could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business. We could also use a portion of the funds as a down payment or to fund a “no-shop” provision (a provision in letters of intent designed to keep target businesses from “shopping” around for transactions with other companies on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into a letter of intent or memorandum of understanding where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit the funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a target business. 5 Table of Contents If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, this diligence may not reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control that may arise later. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation price received by shareholders will be less than $10.00 per share. As of June 30, 2009, the per-share liquidation price of the funds held in trust was $10.00. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors and service providers we engage and prospective target businesses we negotiate with, execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account for the benefit of our public shareholders, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements. Nor is there any guarantee that, even if such entities execute such agreements with us, they will not seek recourse against the trust account. A court could also conclude that such agreements are not legally enforceable. Accordingly, the proceeds held in trust could be subject to claims which could take priority over those of our public shareholders. If we liquidate before the completion of a business combination and distribute the proceeds held in trust to our public shareholders, Thomas Chan-Soo Kang and Kang & Company, Ltd. have agreed that they will be liable to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors, lenders, service providers or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us, but only if a vendor, professional, service provider or prospective target business does not execute a valid and enforceable waiver. They may not be able to satisfy those obligations if they are required to do so. Therefore, we cannot assure you that the per-share distribution from the trust fund, if we liquidate, will not be less than $10.00, plus interest then held in the trust fund, due to such claims. Additionally, if we are forced to file a bankruptcy case or an involuntary bankruptcy case is filed against us which is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the trust account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders at least $10.00 per share. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our memorandum and articles of association provides that we will continue in existence until (i) January 29, 2010, (ii) July 29, 2010 in the event that either a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement to complete a business combination was executed but was not consummated by January 29, 2010, or (iii) July 29, 2011 if such twelve-month extension is approved by our shareholders (the “Termination Date”). If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and dissolving. As a result, 6 Table of Contents this has the same effect as if we had formally went through a voluntary liquidation procedure under the Companies Law (2007 Revision) of the Cayman Islands (the “Companies Law”). In such a situation under the Companies Law, a liquidator would give at least 21 days’ notice to creditors of his intention to make a distribution by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the Cayman Islands Official Gazette, although in practice this notice requirement need not necessarily delay the distribution of assets as the liquidator may be satisfied that no creditors would be adversely affected as a consequence of a distribution before this time period has expired. As soon as the affairs of the company are fully wound-up, the liquidator must lay his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a public notice at least one month before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must make a return to the Registrar confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing the company is dissolved. In the case of a full voluntary liquidation procedure, any liability of shareholders with respect to a liquidating distribution would be barred if creditors miss the deadline for submitting claims. However, it is our intention to liquidate the trust account to our public shareholders as soon as reasonably possible and our directors and officers have agreed to take any such action necessary to dissolve our company and liquidate the trust account as soon as reasonably practicable if we do not complete a business combination by the Termination Date. Pursuant to our Articles of Association, failure to consummate a business combination by the Termination Date will trigger an automatic winding up of the company. As such, our shareholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them pursuant to such process and any liability of our shareholders may extend beyond the date of such dissolution. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. An effective registration statement may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise his, her or its warrants and causing such warrants to be practically worthless. No warrant will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless, at the time a holder seeks to exercise a warrant, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares. Under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants as of the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants until the expiration of the warrants. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We will not be required to net cash settle the warrants (whether in the case of our failure to maintain a current prospectus or otherwise). In such event, the warrants held by public shareholders may have no value, the market for such warrants may be limited and such warrants may expire worthless. An investor will only be able to exercise a warrant if the issuance of ordinary shares upon such exercise has been registered or qualified or is deemed exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. No public warrants will be exercisable and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares unless the ordinary shares issuable upon such exercise have been registered or qualified or deemed to be exempt under the securities laws of the state of residence of the holder of the warrants. At the time that the warrants become exercisable, we expect to continue to be listed on a national securities exchange, which would provide an exemption from registration in every state. Accordingly, we believe holders in every state will be able to exercise their warrants as long as our prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants is current. However, we cannot assure you of this fact. If the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant are not qualified or exempt from qualification in the jurisdictions in which the holders of the warrants reside, the warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited and they may expire worthless if they cannot be sold. 7 Table of Contents Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or target business with which to complete a business combination, we are unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We may consummate a business combination with a company in any industry or geographic location we choose and are not limited to any particular type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business which we may ultimately acquire. To the extent we complete a business combination with a financially unstable company or an entity in its development stage, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations of those entities. If we complete a business combination with an entity in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although our management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. At the time of your investment in us, you were not provided with an opportunity to evaluate the specific merits or risks of one or more target businesses. Accordingly, your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. In addition, a proposal that you vote against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote for the proposed business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that you vote for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote against the proposed business combination. We may not seek an opinion from an unaffiliated third party as to the fair market value of the target business we acquire or that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our shareholders from a financial point of view. We may not seek an opinion from an unaffiliated third party that the target business we select has a fair market value in excess of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commission) at the time we execute a definitive agreement for an initial business combination. We are only required to obtain a valuation opinion if our Board of Directors is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion. We are also not required to obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated third party indicating that the price we are paying is fair to our public shareholders from a financial point of view unless the target is affiliated with our officers, directors, founders or their affiliates or we acquire less than 100% of a target business and any of our officers, directors, founders or their affiliates acquire the remaining portion of such target business. If no opinion is obtained, our shareholders will be relying on the judgment of our Board of Directors. We may issue shares or debt securities to complete a business combination, which would reduce the equity interest of our shareholders and likely cause a change in control of our ownership. Our memorandum and articles of association authorize the issuance of up to 30,000,000 ordinary shares, par value $.0001 per share, 1,000,000 preferred shares, par value $.0001 per share, and one special share, par value $1.00 per share. There are currently 16,295,000 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of the shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the sponsors’ warrants), all of the 1,000,000 preferred shares available for issuance and no special shares available for issuance. Although we have no commitment as of this date, we are likely to issue a substantial number of additional ordinary or preferred shares, or a combination of common and preferred shares, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional ordinary shares or any number of shares of our preferred shares: • may significantly reduce your equity interest; 8 Table of Contents • may subordinate the rights of holders of ordinary shares if we issue preferred stock with rights senior to those afforded to our ordinary shares; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; • may, in certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us; and • may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our ordinary shares. Similarly, if we issue debt securities, it could result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after a business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; • acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; • our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security is payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt security contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt security is outstanding. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control, such as that public shareholders owning 40% or more of the shares sold in the IPO vote against the business combination or the extended period, if any, on a cumulative basis, and opt to have us convert their shares for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our shareholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be totally dependent upon the efforts and time commitments of our management team and our executive officers who are employees of Kang & Company, Ltd. intend to devote the majority of their professional time to our business and affairs, while our independent directors and our executive officers who are not employees of Kang & Company, Ltd. will devote most of their professional time to other businesses. Also, our ability to be successful after a business combination may be dependent upon the efforts of our management team and key personnel who may join us following a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination is dependent upon the efforts of our management team. We believe that our success depends on the continued service and time commitments of these individuals, at least until we have consummated a business combination. These individuals are not obligated to devote any specific number of hours to our matters and intend to devote only as 9 Table of Contents much time as they deem necessary to our affairs. Our executive officers who are employees of Kang & Company, Ltd. intend to spend a majority of their time on our affairs until the successful consummation of a suitable business combination. However, our independent directors and our executive officers who are not employees of Kang & Company, Ltd. will devote most of their professional time to other businesses. Our officers and directors may not remain with, or devote sufficient time to, us for the immediate or foreseeable future. If the other business endeavors of these individuals require them to devote substantial amounts of time, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs, including the time necessary to identify potential business combinations and monitor the related due diligence, and could have a negative impact on our ability to consummate a business combination. Conflicts of interest that these individuals may have in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence, may not be resolved in our favor. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more members of our management team could have a detrimental effect on us. The role of our management team and key personnel from the target business following our initial business combination cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our management team may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following a business combination, it is likely that some or all of the management of the target business will remain in place. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after a business combination, our assessment of these individuals may not prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. Members of our management team may negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with a particular business combination. These agreements may provide for them to receive compensation following a business combination and as a result, may cause them to have conflicts of interest in determining whether a particular business combination is the most advantageous. Members of our management team will be able to remain with the company after the consummation of a business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to the company after the consummation of the business combination. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. Our officers and directors are and may in the future become affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. Our officers and directors are and may in the future become affiliated with entities, including other “blank check” companies, engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us. Additionally, our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us and the other entities to which they owe fiduciary duties. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. We cannot assure you that these conflicts will be resolved in our favor. As a result, a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us and we may miss out on a potential transaction. 10 Table of Contents Our founders and sponsors have waived their rights to participate in liquidation distributions with respect to the founders’ ordinary shares, for which they have paid only a nominal price, and sponsors’ warrants. Therefore, our officers and directors may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination. Our founders and sponsors have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to the founders’ ordinary shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to consummate a business combination. Accordingly, the founders’ ordinary shares, as well as the sponsors’ warrants, and any warrants purchased by our officers or directors in the aftermarket will be worthless if we do not consummate an initial business combination. Additionally, since they paid only a nominal price for the founders’ ordinary shares, they may profit from a proposed business combination even though the transaction may ultimately prove unprofitable for public shareholders. The personal and financial interests of our directors and officers who own founders’ ordinary shares or sponsors’ warrants (or are affiliated with owners of these securities) may influence their motivation in timely identifying and selecting a target business and completing a business combination. Consequently, our directors’ and officers’ desire to avoid rendering their securities worthless may result in a conflict of interest when they determine whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interests, and the conflict of interest will increase as we approach the deadline for completing a business combination and we have not consummated a business combination. The NYSE Amex may delist our securities from quotation on its exchange which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our securities are listed on the NYSE Amex, a national securities exchange. In connection with our business combination, it is likely that the NYSE Amex will require us to file a new initial listing application and meet its initial listing requirements as opposed to its more lenient continued listing requirements and we may not be able to meet those requirements at that time. If the NYSE Amex delists our securities from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a reduced liquidity with respect to our securities; • a determination that our ordinary shares is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our ordinary shares to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our ordinary shares; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of the IPO, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. Our business combination must be with one or more target businesses having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of the execution of a definitive agreement for a business combination. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By consummating a business combination with only a single entity, our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: • solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, or 11 Table of Contents • dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory developments, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to a business combination. Alternatively, if we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses and such businesses are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of the sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete the business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their conversion rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure. When we seek shareholder approval for the extended period, if any, and our initial business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (other than our founding shareholders) the right to have its ordinary shares converted to cash if the shareholder votes against the extended period or business combination, as the case may be, and such proposal is approved and, in the case of the business combination, it is also consummated. We will consummate our initial business combination only if the following two conditions are met: (i) a majority of the ordinary shares voted by the public shareholders are voted in favor of our initial business combination and (ii) public shareholders owning 40% or more of the shares sold in the IPO do not vote against our initial business combination and on a cumulative basis exercise their conversion rights (including any shares previously converted in connection with a vote, if any, on the extended period). If the maximum number of holders seek conversion under the threshold level we are using as described below, we would be required to pay such holders approximately $20.0 million. If this occurred, we would have only approximately $30 million remaining to be used to pay any cash purchase price we may be required to pay in the business combination. Accordingly, if our business combination requires us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such conversion rights, we may either need to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon conversion, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of public shareholders exercise their conversion rights than we expect. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. Even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price to the sellers of the target business, if a significant number of shareholders exercise their conversion rights, we will have less cash available to us to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination. This may make it more difficult for us to be successful following our business combination. We may proceed with a business combination even if public shareholders owning 1,999,999 of the shares sold in the IPO exercise their conversion rights. This requirement may make it easier for us to have a business combination approved over shareholder dissent. We may proceed with a business combination as long as public shareholders owning less than 40% of the shares sold in the IPO both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights on a cumulative basis (including any shares previously 12 Table of Contents converted in connection with a vote, if any, on the extended period). Accordingly, public shareholders holding up to 1,999,999 ordinary shares may both vote against the business combination and exercise their conversion rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. We have set the maximum conversion percentage at 40% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a large majority of our public shareholders. This may have the effect of making it easier for us to have a business combination approved over a shareholder dissent. While there are several offerings similar to ours which include conversion provisions of greater than 20%, the 20% threshold had been common for offerings similar to ours. Because we permit a larger number of shareholders to exercise their conversion rights, it will reduce the requirement to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which shareholders may vote against, making it easier for us to have a business combination approved over shareholder dissent, and shareholders may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of their conversion rights. Because of our limited resources and structure, we may not be able to consummate an attractive business combination. We expect to encounter intense competition from entities other than blank check companies having a business objective similar to ours, including venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds and operating businesses competing for acquisitions. Many of these entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. Our ability to compete in acquiring certain sizable target businesses will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants, and the future dilution they potentially represent, may not be viewed favorably by certain target businesses. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in successfully negotiating a business combination. If we are unable to consummate a business combination with a target business within the prescribed time periods, we will be forced to liquidate. Public shareholders, together with any affiliates of theirs or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group” with, will be restricted from exercising shareholder conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the ordinary shares sold in the IPO. When we seek shareholder approval of the extended period, if any, and a proposed business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (but not our existing shareholders or their permitted transferees) the right to have his, her, or its ordinary shares converted into a pro rata portion of the trust account if the shareholder votes against the extended period and it is approved or the business combination and it is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a “group” will be restricted from exercising shareholder conversion rights with respect to more than 10% of the ordinary shares sold in the IPO. Accordingly, if a shareholder purchased more than 10% of the ordinary shares sold in the IPO and the extended period or a proposed business combination is approved, such shareholder will not be able to exercise shareholder conversion rights with respect to the full amount of his or her ordinary shares and may be forced to hold such additional ordinary shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure such shareholders that the value of such additional ordinary shares will appreciate over time following the extended period, if any, or our initial business combination or that the market price of the ordinary shares will exceed the per-share conversion price. 13 Table of Contents Our founders, including our officers and directors, control a substantial interest in us and thus may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Our founders (including all of our officers and directors) collectively own 20% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Additional purchases of ordinary shares by such individuals would likely allow them to exert additional influence over the approval of our initial business combination. The factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our ordinary shares. Another factor that would be taken into consideration would be that any such additional purchases would increase the likelihood that our initial business combination would be approved. Our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, each of which will generally serve for a term of three years with only one class of directors being elected in each year. It is unlikely that there will be an annual meeting of shareholders to elect new directors prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, in which case all of the current directors will continue in office until at least the consummation of the business combination. If there is an annual meeting, as a consequence of our “staggered” Board of Directors, only a minority of the Board of Directors will be considered for election and our founders, because of their ownership position, will have considerable influence regarding the outcome. Accordingly, our founders will continue to exert control at least until the consummation of our initial business combination. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 5,000,000 ordinary shares as part of the units sold in the IPO. We also sold the sponsors’ warrants to purchase 2,455,000 ordinary shares. To the extent we issue ordinary shares to effect a business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional ordinary shares upon exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle in the eyes of a target business. These warrants, when exercised, will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and reduce the value of the ordinary shares issued to complete the business combination. Accordingly, our warrants may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Additionally, the sale, or even the possibility of a sale, of the ordinary shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, shareholders may experience a substantial dilution of their holdings. If the holders of the founders’ ordinary shares and sponsors’ warrants (and underlying securities) exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares and the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The founders are entitled to demand that we register the resale of the founders’ ordinary shares at any time commencing 90 days prior to the date on which their shares are released from escrow. Additionally, the purchasers of the sponsors’ warrants are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their warrants and underlying ordinary shares at any time commencing 90 days after we consummate a business combination. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. If such individuals and entity exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their securities, then there will be an additional 1,250,000 ordinary shares and 2,455,000 warrants (as well as 2,455,000 ordinary shares underlying the warrants) eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of these additional securities trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our ordinary shares. In addition, the existence of these rights may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business, as the shareholders of the target business may be discouraged from entering into a business combination with us or will request a higher price for their securities because of the potential negative effect the exercise of such rights may have on the trading market for our ordinary shares. 14 Table of Contents Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. Federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, all of our directors and officers are residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or officers. Our corporate affairs will be governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) or the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and certain states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholders derivative action in a Federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of United States securities laws that are penal in nature There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. Unlike many jurisdictions in the United States, Cayman Islands law does not provide for mergers as that term is understood under corporate law in the United States. Cayman Islands law does have statutory provisions that provide for the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies, which are commonly referred to in the Cayman Islands as “schemes of arrangement.” The procedural and legal requirements necessary to consummate these transactions are more rigorous and take longer to complete than the procedures typically required to consummate a merger in the United States. Under Cayman Islands law and practice, a scheme of arrangement in relation to a Cayman Islands company must be approved at a shareholders’ meeting by each class of shareholders, in each case, by a majority of the number of holders of each class of a company’s shares that are present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at such a meeting, which holders must also represent 75% in value of such class issued that are present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at such meeting, excluding the shares owned by the parties to the scheme of arrangement. The convening of these meetings and the terms of the amalgamation must also be sanctioned by the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands. Although there is no requirement to seek the consent of the creditors of the parties involved in the scheme of arrangement, the Grand Court typically seeks to ensure that the creditors have consented to the transfer of their liabilities to the surviving entity or that the scheme of arrangement does not otherwise materially adversely affect the creditors’ interests. Furthermore, the Grand Court will only approve a scheme of arrangement if it is satisfied that: • the statutory provisions as to majority vote have been complied with; 15 Table of Contents • the shareholders have been fairly represented at the meeting in question; • the scheme of arrangement is such as a businessperson would reasonably approve; and • the scheme of arrangement is not one that would more properly be sanctioned under some other provision of the Companies Law. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Because all of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights against them or enforce U.S. court judgments against them. All of our directors and all of our officers reside outside of the United States and substantially all of our assets are, and will be, located outside of the United States. If we consummate our initial business combination with a target business in a jurisdiction that does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, it may be necessary to rely on the foreign jurisdiction’s law and/or legal system in order to obtain an enforceable judgment against certain directors and officers and certain assets. It may therefore be uncertain and difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers outside of the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under United States federal securities laws. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the U.S. federal securities laws. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. A company that, among other things, is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, trading or holding certain types of securities would be deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Since we invested the proceeds held in the trust account, it is possible that we could be deemed an investment company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we do not believe that our anticipated principal activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. To this end, the proceeds held in trust may be invested by the trustee only in United States “government securities” within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 having a maturity of 180 days or less. By restricting the investment of the proceeds to these instruments, we intend to meet the requirements for the exemption provided in Rule 3a-1 promulgated under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are nevertheless deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it more difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on the issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us certain burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and 16 Table of Contents • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy, compliance policies and procedures and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. Compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would require additional expense for which we have not allotted. Because we must furnish our shareholders with target business financial statements, we may not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective target businesses. We will provide shareholders with audited financial statements of the prospective target business as part of the proxy solicitation materials sent to shareholders to assist them in assessing the target business. In all likelihood, these financial statements will need to be prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Target businesses identified by us as potential acquisition candidates may not have financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP or may not be able to prepare its financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To the extent that this requirement cannot be met, we may not be able to acquire the proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. In general, we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the average value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents, royalties, and gains from the disposition of passive assets. If we are determined to be a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder held our ordinary shares or warrants, the U.S. holder may be subject to increased U.S. federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. If any dividend is declared in the future and such dividend is denominated in a foreign currency, you may be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will ultimately receive. If you are a U.S. Holder, you will be taxed on the U.S. dollar value of your dividends (denominated in foreign currency) at the time the dividends must be included in your income as a U.S. Holder, even if you would subsequently actually receive a smaller amount of U.S. dollars due to the continuing appreciation of the foreign currency when the dividend payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Specifically, if a dividend is declared and paid in a foreign currency, the amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income as a U.S. Holder will be the U.S. dollar value of the payments made in the foreign currency, determined at the conversion rate of the foreign currency to the U.S. dollar on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into U.S. dollars. Conversely, if the value of the foreign currency depreciates before the dividends to be paid to you has actually been converted into U.S. dollars and prior to such dividends becomes includible in your income, you will be taxed on a larger amount in U.S. dollars than the U.S. dollar amount that you will ultimately receive. If we effect a business combination with a company located outside of the United States (other than the ROK or PRC as described below), we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. Although we primarily have focused our search on target businesses that have their principal operations located in Asia with a particular emphasis on the ROK or PRC, we are not limited to these jurisdictions and may consummate a business combination with a target business in any other country. If we acquire a company outside of the ROK or PRC, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on dividend payments to individuals; 17 Table of Contents • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency and exchange rate fluctuations; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; and • employment regulations. If we were unable to do adequately address these additional risks, our operations might suffer. Risks related to operations in the ROK and PRC Business combinations with companies with operations in the ROK or PRC entail special considerations and risks. Business combinations in the ROK If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in the ROK, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: After a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located in the ROK and therefore, substantially all of our revenue may be derived from our operations in the ROK. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in the ROK. If we acquire a target business in the ROK, substantially all of our operations and assets will be located in the ROK. As a result, we are subject to political, economic, legal and regulatory risks specific to the ROK. From early 1997 until 1999, the ROK experienced a significant financial and economic downturn, from which it is widely believed the country has now recovered to a large extent. However, the economic indicators in recent years have shown mixed signs of recovery and uncertainty, and future recovery or growth of the economy is subject to many factors beyond our control. Events related to the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, recent developments in the Middle East, including the war in Iraq, higher oil prices, the recent subprime mortgage financial crisis in the United States, the general weakness of the global economy and the sporadic occurrence of avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world and the risk of its widespread outbreak have increased the uncertainty of global economic prospects in general and may continue to adversely affect the Korean economy. Any future deterioration of the Korean and global economy could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Developments that could have an adverse impact on the ROK’s economy include: • financial problems or lack of progress in restructuring of Korean conglomerates called chaebols, other large troubled companies, their suppliers or the financial sector; and • loss of investor confidence arising from corporate accounting irregularities and corporate governance issues at certain Korean conglomerates; 18 Table of Contents • a slowdown in consumer spending and the overall economy; • adverse changes or volatility in foreign currency reserve levels, commodity prices (including an increase in oil prices), exchange rates (including fluctuation of the U.S. dollar, Japanese Yen or the RMB), interest rates and stock markets; • deterioration of economic or market conditions in other emerging markets; • adverse developments in the economies of countries that are important export and import markets for the ROK, such as the United States, Japan and the PRC, or in emerging market economies in Asia or elsewhere; • the continued emergence of the Chinese economy, to the extent its benefits (such as increased exports to the PRC) are outweighed by its costs (such as competition in export markets or for foreign investment and the relocation of the manufacturing base from the ROK to the PRC or other Asian countries); • social and labor unrest; • substantial decreases in the market prices of Korean real estate; • a decrease in tax revenues and a substantial increase in the Korean government’s expenditures for unemployment compensation and other social programs that, together, would lead to an increased government budget deficit; • geo-political uncertainty and risk of further attacks by terrorist groups around the world; • the recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or an outbreak of avian flu in Asia and other parts of the world; • deterioration in economic or diplomatic relations between the ROK and its trading partners or allies, including deterioration resulting from trade disputes or disagreements in foreign policy; • political uncertainty or increasing strife among or within political parties in the ROK; • hostilities involving oil producing countries in the Middle East and any material disruption in the supply of oil or increase in the price of oil; and • an increase in the level of tensions or an outbreak of hostilities between North Korea and the United States. If we acquire a target business in the ROK, the ROK’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. If we acquire a target business in the ROK, that jurisdiction’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The ROK economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in several respects. Although the ROK economy has become one of the world’s largest economies, for most of the country’s history, the economy has been centrally planned by the ROK government and many aspects of such centralized control remain today. The ROK government still plays a significant role in regulating various aspects of the economy, including coordinating industrial policy, establishing import restrictions and foreign exchange regulations, and overseeing the financial services sector. In most cases, the government is significantly more involved in the economy than that of other developed countries. The significant government involvement in the ROK economy may be detrimental to our business, results of operations and prospects. Escalations in tensions with North Korea could have an adverse effect on us and could severely impact our operations in the ROK. Relations between the ROK and North Korea have been tense throughout the ROK’s modern history. The level of tension between the two Koreas has fluctuated and may increase abruptly as a result of current and future events. In recent years, there have been heightened security concerns stemming from North Korea’s nuclear weapon and long-range missile programs and increased uncertainty regarding North Korea’s actions and possible responses from the international community. 19 Table of Contents In December 2002, North Korea removed the seals and surveillance equipment from its Yongbyon nuclear power plant and evicted inspectors from the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency. In January 2003, North Korea renounced its obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. Since the renouncement, the ROK, the United States, North Korea, China, Japan and Russia have held numerous rounds of six-party multi-lateral talks in an effort to resolve issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear weapons program. In addition to conducting test flights of long-range missiles, North Korea announced in October 2006 that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test, which increased tensions in the region and elicited strong objections worldwide. In response, the United Nations Security Council passed a resolution that prohibits any United Nations member state from conducting transactions with North Korea in connection with any large scale arms and material or technology related to missile development or weapons of mass destruction and from providing luxury goods to North Korea, imposes an asset freeze and travel ban on persons associated with North Korea’s weapons program and calls upon all United Nations member states to take cooperative action, including through inspection of cargo to or from North Korea. Partly in response, North Korea agreed in February 2007 at the six-party talks to shut down and seal the Yongbyon nuclear facility, including the reprocessing facility and readmit international inspectors to conduct all necessary monitoring and verifications. In return, the other five parties in the six-party talks agreed to provide emergency energy assistance of 50,000 tons of heavy fuel oil to North Korea in the initial phase. There can be no assurance that the February 2007 accord will be implemented as agreed or the level of tension on the Korean peninsula will not escalate in the future. Any further increase in tension, including a breakdown of high-level contacts between the ROK and North Korea or occurrence of military hostilities, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Financial instability in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia, could adversely impact the Korean economy and our business. The Korean market and the Korean economy are influenced by economic and market conditions in other countries, particularly emerging market countries in Asia. Financial turmoil in Asia, Russia and elsewhere in the world in recent years has adversely affected the Korean economy. Although economic conditions are different in each country, investors’ reactions to developments in one country can have adverse effects on the economies in other countries, including the ROK. A loss of investor confidence in the financial systems of emerging and other markets may cause increased volatility in the Korean economy. We cannot be certain that financial events of the type that occurred in emerging markets in Asia in 1997 and 1998 will not happen again or will not have an adverse effect on our business. Because the rights of shareholders under Korean law differ from those under the laws of some other jurisdictions, we may have difficulties protecting our shareholder rights compared to shareholders in some other jurisdictions. The target business’ corporate affairs will be governed by its articles of incorporation, the law under which the target business is organized, and other various applicable laws in the ROK, which will depend upon the industry type, the businesses engaged by the target business and whether or not the target business is listed on the Korea Exchange in the ROK. Certain rights of shareholders and the responsibilities of management and the members of the board of directors under Korean laws are different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. As such, the target business may not be able to receive legal implementation and interpretation as in other jurisdictions and remedies may not be available outside of the ROK. Therefore, shareholders of Korean companies may have more difficulty in protecting their interest in connection with actions taken by management or members of the board of directors than they would as shareholders in some other jurisdictions. 20 Table of Contents The ability of our Korean operating company to pay dividends to us may be limited by the restrictions imposed by Korean law. We may rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in the ROK would permit our operating company in the ROK to pay dividends to us only out of its distributable income, which is determined in accordance with Korean accounting standards and regulations. If our operating company in the ROK incurs debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Because the ROK does not have a tax treaty with the Cayman Islands, there will be a Korean withholding tax at the rate of 27.5% (including residential surtax) on dividends to be paid by a Korean operating company and therefore, the dividends we may pay to our shareholders following a business combination will be decreased to such extent. According to the ROK’s tax laws, any dividends that are distributed by a Korean company to a foreign shareholder that does not have a permanent establishment in the ROK will be subject to Korean withholding tax at the rate of 27.5% or a reduced tax rate if there is an applicable tax treaty. Given that we are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, which does not have an effective tax treaty with the ROK, if we do not reincorporate into another jurisdiction at the time of our initial business combination which has an effective tax treaty with the ROK, any dividends that will be distributed to us by a Korean operating company that we acquire in our initial business combination will be taxed at the rate of 27.5%. Therefore, such considerations will reduce the return to investors and may adversely impact our ability to use our cash flow. If we are deemed to have a “place of effective management” in Korea, we will be treated as a Korean company for the purpose of Korean corporate income tax with regards to our worldwide income. Under the Corporate Income Tax Law (“CITL”) as amended on December 31, 2005, a corporation having a “place of effective management” in Korea will be treated as a “Korean company” for the purpose of Korean corporate income tax. However, the CITL does not clearly define what constitutes “place of effective management” and, to date, there has not been any court precedent. If we are deemed to have a “place of effective management” in Korea, we will be required to file annual corporate income tax returns with the Korean tax authorities and be subject to Korean corporate income tax. Currently, the applicable rates are 14.3% for taxable income up to first 100 million Korean Won and 27.5% for taxable income exceeding 100 million Korean Won. The Ministry of Strategy & Finance has recently announced its plan to reduce the current corporate income tax rates under the CITL, and if the amendment is made as planned, the applicable rates will be 12.1% (11% effective from 2010) for taxable income up to first 200 million Korean Won and 24.2% (22% effective from 2010) for taxable income exceeding 200 million Korean Won effective from 2008. Taxable income would include any worldwide income, such as dividends we receive from our Korean operating company and any interest income earned outside of Korea. If we are required to pay Korean corporate income tax, it may reduce our cash flow and negatively impact the returns to investors. If we are deemed to have a “permanent establishment” in Korea, we will be subject to Korean corporate income tax with regards to any Korean source income attributable to or effectively connected with such permanent establishment. If we are deemed to have a “permanent establishment” as defined under Korean tax law, we would be required to file annual corporate income tax returns with the Korean tax office and be subject to Korean corporate income tax. Currently, the applicable rates are 14.3% for taxable income up to 100 million Korean Won and 27.5% for taxable income exceeding 100 million Korean Won. 21 Table of Contents Taxable income includes any Korean source income attributable to or effectively connected with such permanent establishment, such as dividends we receive from our Korean operating company. If we are required to pay Korean corporate income tax, it may reduce our cash flow and negatively impact the returns to investors. If we acquire more than 50% of a Korean operating company, we will be subject to the deemed acquisition tax under Korean tax law. Under the Local Tax Law of Korea, if we acquire more than 50% of an unlisted Korean company or a Korean company whose shares are listed on the KOSDAQ Market of the Korea Exchange, we will be subject to the deemed acquisition tax. Certain assets owned by the Korean operating company, such as real estate, automobiles, and country club memberships, will be subject to a tax of approximately 2.2% which is calculated on the net book value of such assets multiplied by our shareholding ratio of the Korean subsidiary. If we are subject to the deemed acquisition tax under Korean tax law, this may increase the cost of completing our initial business combination and negatively impact investor returns. If we acquire more than 50% of a Korean operating company, we may be subject to the secondary tax liability under Korean tax law. Under the National Tax Basic Law, if we acquire more than 50% of an unlisted Korean company or a Korean company whose shares are listed on the KOSDAQ Market of the Korea Exchange and the company is unable to meet its national tax obligations with its assets, we will be subject to the secondary tax liability for any taxes accrued during the period we hold our shares. Under the Local Tax Law of Korea, assuming we hold more than 50% of the Korean operating company, we may also be subject to the secondary tax liability if the operating company fails to pay its local taxes. The secondary tax liability is equal to the amount of unpaid taxes multiplied by our shareholding ratio of the Korean operating company. There is no assurance that we will not be subject to such tax liabilities or that we will acquire an operating company that will have sufficient cash flow to cover such potential tax liabilities. Under Korean tax law, any transaction we enter into with our Korean operating company or its affiliated entities may be subject to transfer pricing rules and the review by Korean tax authorities. Under Korean tax law, if any transaction we enter into with our Korean operating company or its affiliated entities is not deemed to be on an arm’s-length basis, the Korean tax authorities may disallow any tax savings, adjust the terms and conditions of the transaction, and will have the authority to assess tax penalties, including interest on the late remittance of any applicable taxes. If we are found to be in violation of any transfer pricing regulations, this may significantly increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income and the return to our shareholders. If the ROK enacts regulations in our target business’ proposed industry segments which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in the ROK are not explicitly or clearly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, they could severely limit the candidate pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. 22 Table of Contents Korean regulations on foreign investment may limit our ability to consummate a business combination. We will initially be subject to restrictions and approval requirements in connection with structuring and completing a transaction to acquire a business in the ROK that will comply with Korean law. There are certain investment limits that apply not only to foreign investors but also generally to all investors if the investments are made in the financial institutions sector amongst others. In addition, certain Korean companies are subject to foreign ownership limitations based on the laws specifically applicable to such companies. There is no single law that sets forth a common rule on foreign ownership limitations nor is there a centralized enforcement authority in this regard. Each of the relevant laws sets forth specific foreign ownership limitations using its own terminology as well as different ceilings in order to serve the purposes of that specific law. Examples of such companies subject to the foreign ownership limitations are the Korea Electric Power Corporation, Korean Gas Corporation, telecommunication companies, broadcasting companies, newspapers, defense related industries and airline companies. With respect to the financial services sector, regulations may prohibit us from acquiring a controlling interest in certain financial institutions. We may be deemed to be a single foreign shareholder thus potentially prohibiting an investment in designated financial services industries. Fluctuation in foreign exchange rates in the ROK may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, substantially all revenues and income will likely be received in Korean Won. Thus, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by the depreciation of the Korean Won. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Korean Won for our operations, appreciation of Korean Won against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Korean Won into U.S. dollars for our business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Korean Won, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Korean Won we convert would be reduced. We do not expect to engage in foreign exchange hedging transactions and therefore there can be no assurance that a significant depreciation of the Korean Won against foreign currencies, or a decrease in the amount of revenues earned in foreign currencies, would not cause the target business to experience foreign exchange losses and have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. Korean corporate law and securities regulations may restrict our ability to structure an initial business combination with a Korean operating company. In connection with an initial business combination in Korea, it may be necessary for the Korean target company to issue new shares to us. Under Korean corporate law, a board resolution is usually sufficient for a company to issue new shares unless its articles of incorporation state otherwise. However, unless (i) the new shares are subscribed by the company’s existing shareholders in accordance with its preemptive rights, such as a shareholder allotment offering, or (ii) the articles of incorporation allows for a capital increase via a third-party allotment, a special shareholders resolution will be required to allow such third-party allotment. Currently, there are no restrictions on the issuance price per share in connection with shareholder allotment offerings. However, if the issuance price is below par value, we will be required to obtain a special shareholders resolution and we will need to obtain court approval and meet other requirements in the case of an unlisted company. In the case whereby the Korean operating company issues new shares via a third-party allotment, the price per share must be deemed to be fair market value. We may need to obtain a fairness opinion by a third party appraiser if challenged as to the fairness of the contemplated transaction. If we acquire a Korean company listed on the Korea Exchange, we may be subject to regulatory oversight under the Securities and Exchange Law of Korea (the “SEL”). According to the SEL, a public offering of securities in Korea requires the registration of the issuing party and a registration statement for the offering, unless exempted under certain conditions. Generally, an offering involving 50 or more offerees, excluding certain exempted investors, is considered a public offering. In addition, if any investor who, together 23 Table of Contents with any related persons (i.e., affiliates and persons acting in concert), acquires 5% or more of the total outstanding shares of a listed company outside the Korea Exchange from 10 or more shareholders during any six-month period, such investor will be required to make a public tender offer. Given these stipulations that may affect the structuring of an acquisition, Korean securities regulations may significantly impact our ability to consummate our initial business combination and to identify an attractive acquisition target. Possible adverse Korean tax implications to the shareholders of a Korean target business may limit our ability to structure and complete our initial business combination. In connection with an initial business combination in Korea, if the existing shareholders of the Korean target company sell their shares to us for cash or in exchange for newly issued shares, the sellers would be subject to capital gains and securities transaction taxes in connection with such sale under Korean tax law. The adverse tax implications on the selling shareholders may limit our ability to structure and complete our initial business combination. If the seller is a Korean resident individual, the shareholder may be subject to capital gains tax ranging from 11% to 33%, depending upon the size of the Korean operating company and the shareholding status (i.e., length of the shareholding period and the shareholding ratio). If the seller is a Korean corporation, it will be subject to capital gains tax at the rate of 14.3% for taxable income up to 100 million Korean Won and 27.5% for taxable income exceeding such amount. If the seller is a non-resident individual or foreign corporation having no permanent establishment in Korea, the selling shareholder will be subject to a withholding tax equal to the lesser of 11% of sale proceeds or 27.5% of capital gains unless exempted by an applicable tax treaty. The selling shareholders will also be subject to a securities transaction tax at the rate of 0.5% (or 0.3% for shares traded on the Korea Exchange) of the sale proceeds. If the seller is a non-resident individual or foreign corporation having no permanent establishment in Korea, we (or any other withholding agent under Korean tax law such as a securities company) will be required to withhold the applicable securities transaction tax and remit payment to the relevant district tax office. We may be subject to Korean reporting requirements under the Foreign Exchange Transaction Law. Any transaction involving Korean Won or a non-resident is subject to restrictions and reporting requirements under the Foreign Exchange Transaction Law and its subordinate regulations (collectively, the FETL). Therefore, the structuring and completion of a business combination in the ROK (including, without limitation, a stock swap between us and a Korean target business) may be restricted or subject to reporting requirements (which in some cases are de facto approval processes). Also, under the FETL, if the Korean government deems that certain emergency circumstances, including but not limited to sudden fluctuations in interest rates or exchange rates, extreme difficulty in stabilizing the balance of payments or a substantial disturbance in the Korean financial and capital markets, are likely to occur, it may impose additional restrictions as it deems necessary. Thus, we may be restricted in completing our initial business combination and the subsequent repatriation of any profits and dividends generated by our Korean operating company. We may be subject to Korean reporting requirements under various laws of the ROK, in particular, the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law. While there are various reporting requirements in connection with a business combination in the ROK, such as foreign direct investment report under the Foreign Investment Promotion Law, they are mostly routine filing requirements without any significant review by government authorities. However, the report pursuant to the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law is subject to substantive review by the Korean Fair Trade Commission. It is required if (i) either the acquiror or the target has assets or annual revenues (including affiliates) of at least 100 billion Korean Won, (ii) the counter party to the transaction has assets or annual revenues of at least 20 billion Korean Won, and (iii) the acquiror acquires 20% or more of the target company’s voting shares (or 15% 24 Table of Contents or more of the target company’s voting shares in case of a company listed on the Korea Exchange). We may be subject to filing requirements under the Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Law and, if so, we cannot be assured that our business combination will be approved by the Korean Fair Trade Commission. Business combinations in the PRC If we are successful in completing a business combination with a target business with operations in China, we will be subject to, and possibly adversely affected by, the following risks: After a business combination, substantially all of our assets may be located in the PRC and substantially all of our revenue may be derived from our operations in the PRC. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal policies, developments and conditions in such country. If we acquire a target business in the PRC, that jurisdiction’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. For instance, the PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. If the economic, political or legal systems of the jurisdiction of the target business we acquire develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, it may adversely impact our results of operations and prospects. If relations between the United States and the PRC deteriorate, potential target businesses or their goods or services could become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, if the United States imposes new short-term quotas on Chinese imports, such import quotas may adversely affect political relations between the two countries and result in retaliatory countermeasures by the PRC in industries that may affect our ultimate target business. Relations may also be compromised if the United States becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Relations may also be compromised if either the PRC government or the Taiwan government unilaterally alters the current political status quo between Taiwan and the Chinese mainland. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could adversely affect our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or another epidemic. From time to time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of the PRC, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in the PRC or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. 25 Table of Contents If the PRC imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed which could materially and adversely impact our profitability following a business combination. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Imposition of similar restrictions may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in the services or products we may ultimately offer leading to a material and adverse impact on our profitability. Any devaluation of currencies used in the PRC could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and any appreciation thereof could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to complete a business combination with a target business likely to have its primary operating facilities located in the PRC, and because substantially all revenues and income following a business combination would be received in a foreign currency such as Renminbi, the main currency used in the PRC, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by fluctuations in the value of the Renminbi. The value of foreign currency fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Chinese currency for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert Renminbi into U.S. dollars for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against this currency, the U.S. dollar equivalent of such currency we convert would be reduced. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the U.S. dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Historically, the PRC “pegged” its currency to the U.S. dollar. This meant that each unit of Chinese currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the Chinese currency low when compared to other countries gave Chinese companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from other countries, the PRC recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value for its currency. Since July 21, 2005, Renminbi has been pegged to a basket of currencies, and permitted to fluctuate within a managed band. This floating exchange rate, and any appreciation of the Renminbi that may result from such rate, could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Further, target companies may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. If the PRC government determines that we failed to obtain requisite PRC governmental approvals for, or register with the PRC government, for our future import and export of technologies, we could be subject to sanctions. The PRC imposes controls on technology import and export. The term “technology import and export” is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology requires either approval by, or registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities. We can make no assurances that we will successfully obtain such approval or complete such registration. If our Chinese subsidiaries are found to be in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting us from remitting royalties or any other fees, if any, relating to these technologies outside of the PRC, confiscating our earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting our future export and import of any technology. Any of these sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may adversely affect our business and result of operations. 26 Table of Contents If the PRC government finds that the potential future agreements that establish the structure for operating our PRC businesses do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be deemed to have violated the PRC laws and regulations. As a result, we could be subject to significant penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. PRC regulations currently prohibit or restrict foreign ownership in certain industries. All foreign investments in the PRC will be subject to the examination and approval of the authority of the MOFCOM or its counterparts at local levels. Under PRC law, a foreign-invested enterprise’s (the “FIE”) permitted scope of industry is particularly influenced by the Catalogue for Guidance of Foreign Investment Industries (the “CGFII”, the latest version, issued by the State Development and Reform Commission and the MOFCOM, came into effect on December 1, 2007). In the CGFII, industries for foreign investment are classified into four categories, i.e., the encouraged, the permitted, the restricted and the prohibited. The encouraged, restricted and prohibited industries are specifically listed in the CGFII; industries not specified in the CGFII are regarded as permitted. If we or any of our potential future subsidiaries or affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in certain of our affiliated entities in which direct foreign ownership is prohibited) the relevant PRC regulatory authorities might have the discretion to: • revoke the business and operating licenses of possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; • confiscate relevant income and impose fines and other penalties; • discontinue or restrict possible future PRC subsidiaries’ or affiliates’ operations; • require us or possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; • restrict or prohibit our use of the proceeds of the IPO to finance our businesses and operations in the PRC; • impose conditions or requirements with which we or possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates may not be able to comply; or • prohibit possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates from returning the investments and profits to us. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities may impose further penalties. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our operations. In many cases, existing regulations with regard to investments from foreign investors and domestic private capital lack detailed explanations and operational procedures, and are subject to interpretation, which may change over time. We thus cannot be certain how the regulations will be applied to our business, either currently or in the future. Moreover, new regulations may be adopted or the interpretation of existing regulations may change, any of which could result in similar penalties, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. If the PRC enacts regulations in our target business’ proposed industry segments which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in the PRC are not explicitly or clearly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, they could severely limit 27 Table of Contents the candidate pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. After we consummate a business combination, our operating company in the PRC may be subject to restrictions on dividend payments. After we consummate a business combination, we may rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in the PRC would permit our operating company in the PRC to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in the PRC will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated distributable after-tax profits each year as reserve funds. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in the PRC incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. There are procedural requirements with regards to the acquisition of the equity or assets of a state-owned enterprise under PRC law. If we are unable to comply with these requirements in a timely manner, we may be forced to abort such acquisition. Our possible future PRC targets may include stated-owned enterprises, or SOEs. Under PRC law, any disposal of the equity or assets from any SOE shall be subject to the approval of the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Committee or its local counterparts, or SASAC. The underlying equity or assets must be evaluated and such evaluation shall be approved by or be filed with the SASAC. The actual purchase price shall be no less than 90% of the approved/filed evaluation; otherwise, the transaction may be suspended unless specific approval from the SASAC is secured. In addition, under current PRC law, the purchase by a foreign investor like us of the equity or assets from an SOE is subject to a public bidding process on an open properties exchange unless specifically exempted by the SASAC. We may be unable to secure all the necessary approvals, confirmations and/or filings with the SASAC. We also may not succeed in the public bidding process on an open properties exchange if we pursue an acquisition of the equity or assets of an SOE. If we fail to obtain these approvals or succeed in public bidding, we may not be able to consummate the acquisition of a SOE. As a result of merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006 relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, it is expected that acquisitions will take longer and be subject to economic scrutiny by the PRC government authorities such that we may not be able to complete a transaction. On August 8, 2006, the Ministry of Commerce, together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a foreign investor may acquire assets or equity interests in a Chinese enterprise 28 Table of Contents and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside the PRC, which became effective on September 8, 2006. Although there was a complex series of regulations in place prior to August 8, 2006 that were administered by a combination of provincial and centralized agencies, the new regulations have largely centralized and expanded the approval process to the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (SAIC), the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) or its branch offices, the SASAC, and the China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC). Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the aforementioned agencies, some of which must be made within strict time limits and depending on approvals from one or the other of the aforementioned agencies. The application process requires the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the business to be acquired which will permit the government to assess the economics of a transaction in addition to the compliance with legal requirements. If obtained, approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed. Also, depending on the industries to which the targeted business belongs, completed transactions must be reported to MOFCOM and some of the other agencies within a short period after closing and be confirmed by such agencies. If the completed transactions are not confirmed, it could render the transaction legally ineffective even if consummated by the parties. In extreme cases, the authorities could suspend or revoke the business license of the Chinese entities and cause an unwinding of the transaction. If the transaction was to be unwound, the consideration paid to the target business would be returned to us and we would then be forced to either attempt to complete a new business combination or we would be required to return any amounts which were held in the trust account to our shareholders and dissolve and liquidate. It is expected that compliance with the regulations will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly for the Chinese parties and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, acquisitions in the PRC may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. Because the September 8, 2006 PRC merger and acquisition regulations permit the government agencies to have scrutiny over the economics of an acquisition transaction and require consideration in a transaction to be paid within stated time limits, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our shareholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The regulations have introduced aspects of economic and substantive analysis of the target business and the acquirer and the terms of the transaction by MOFCOM and the other governing agencies through submissions of an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets. The regulations require that in certain transaction structures, the consideration must be paid within strict time periods, generally not in excess of a year. Because the Chinese authorities have been concerned with offshore flips which converted domestic companies into foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) in order to take advantage of certain benefits, including reduced taxation in the PRC, the new regulations require new foreign sourced capital of not less than 25% of the domestic company’s post—acquisition capital in order to obtain FIE treatment. Accordingly, if a sufficient amount of foreign capital is not infused into the domestic company, it will not be eligible to obtain FIE treatment. In asset transactions there must be no harm of third parties and the public interest in the allocation of assets and liabilities being assumed or acquired. These aspects of the regulations will limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with terms that will satisfy our investors and protect our shareholders interests in an acquisition of a Chinese business or assets. 29 Table of Contents The PRC merger and acquisition regulations of September 8, 2006 have introduced industry protection and anti-trust aspects to the acquisition of Chinese companies and assets which may limit our ability to effect an acquisition. Under the PRC merger and acquisition regulations, acquisitions of Chinese domestic companies relating to “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or result in the transfer of “actual control” of companies having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names” must be reported and approved by the relevant agencies. The merger and acquisition regulations also provide for antitrust review requirements for certain large transactions or transactions involving large companies and roll-up transactions with the same effect in the relevant Chinese market. In addition, certain mergers and acquisitions among foreign companies occurring outside of the PRC could also be subject to antitrust review in the PRC which is similar to United States anti-trust law concepts. The regulations use various economic tests to determine if the transaction has to be reported to MOFCOM which include but are not limited to (i) if any of the parties to the transaction has a turnover in the Chinese market of more than RMB 1,500,000,000, (ii) if in a transaction outside of the PRC, any party thereto has assets in the PRC of more than RMB 3,000,000,000, (iii) if any of the parties to the transaction, before its consummation, control not less than 20% of the Chinese market, (iv) if any of the parties as a result of the transaction will control 25% of the Chinese market, (v) the foreign investor has acquired 10 or more enterprises in related industries in the PRC during the prior year, or (vi) if in a transaction outside of the PRC results in the foreign entities directly or indirectly acquiring 15 or more FIEs in related industries within the PRC. Exemptions may be sought from the MOFCOM and SAIC on the basis that: (i) the transaction will improve market competition, (ii) the transaction will restructure unprofitable entities and ensures employment, (iii) the transaction will introduce high technologies and increase international competitiveness, and (iv) the transaction will improve the environment. Notwithstanding the September 8, 2006, regulations, the Chinese government passed an anti-monopoly law on August 30, 2007 that went into effect on August 1, 2008, which supplemented the above provisions. The law requires checks on mergers or acquisitions of foreign and Chinese enterprises to ascertain whether they will have an effect of eliminating or restricting competition on domestic market of China and whether they affect national security. Pursuant to the Anti-Monopoly Law, there will be an Anti-Monopoly Law Enforcement Agency to be set up by the State Council in charge of the implementation of the law including the review of anti-trust notifications for the mergers or acquisitions which reach the notification threshold prescribed by the State Council. The State Council is also authorized under the Anti-Monopoly Law to establish an Anti-Monopoly Committee. The relevant regulations of the Anti-Monopoly Law specifying who will be such Agency and Committee and the notification threshold, among others, have not yet been promulgated. Any transaction that we contemplate will have to comply with these regulations and may require additional approval or abandonment if we are not able to satisfy the requirements of the governmental authorities. When we evaluate a potential transaction, we will consider the need to comply with these regulations which may result in our modifying or not pursuing a particular transaction. Although the merger and acquisition regulations provide specific requirements and procedures, there are many ambiguities which give the regulators great latitude in the approval process which will cause uncertainty in our ability to complete a transaction on a timely basis. The merger and acquisition regulations set forth many requirements that have to be followed, but there are still many ambiguities in the meaning of many provisions. Although further regulations are anticipated in the future, until there has been clarification either by pronouncements, regulation or practice, there is some uncertainty in the scope of the regulations. Moreover, the ambiguities give the regulators wide latitude in the enforcement of the regulations and the transactions to which they may or may not apply. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which the regulations will apply to a transaction, and therefore, there may be uncertainty in whether or not a transaction will be completed until the approval process is under way or until the preliminary approvals are obtained. 30 Table of Contents The Ministry of Information Industry (MII) issued regulations that regulate and limit ownership and investment in internet and other value-added telecommunications businesses in the PRC which may limit the type of businesses we will be able to acquire. On July 13, 2006, the MII issued a notice with the purpose of increasing the regulation of foreign investment in and operations of value added telecom services which includes internet and telecommunications businesses in the PRC. The regulations require Chinese entities to own and control the following: (i) internet domain names, (ii) registered trademarks, and (iii) servers and other infrastructure equipment used to host and operate web-sites and conduct business. The ownership requirements functionally limit foreign direct and indirect ownership and control of the intellectual property of these businesses even when attempted through various parallel control, licensing, use and management agreements. It is anticipated that these regulations will be strictly enforced, and the government has provided that the new regulations apply retroactively and provides for audit procedures. The failure to comply may cause the MII to terminate a telecommunications license or otherwise modify existing agreements or require the disposition of the assets by the foreign entity. Any anticipated foreign investment in such businesses will be subject to prior approval by the MII, and it is expected that approval for investment may not be easily obtained for foreign investment in these businesses unless in strict compliance. Therefore, investment by us in this sector may not be actively pursued because certain assets may not be acquirable and accounting consolidation may be restricted or not permitted as a result of an unfavorable but permitted transaction structure. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely effect our ability to acquire PRC companies. Regulations were issued on January 24, 2005, on April 8, 2005 and on October 21, 2005, by the SAFE, that will require approvals from, and registration with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. The Circular on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 75, which were issued on October 21, 2005 and became effective as of November 1, 2005 repealed the previous January and April SAFE regulations. Circular 75 requires each Chinese domestic resident, whether a natural or legal person, to complete the overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures with the relevant local SAFE branch, prior to establishing or assuming control of an offshore company for the purpose of acquiring assets or equity interests in the PRC and using these assets to seek overseas financing (known as “round-trip investment”). In addition, an amendment to the registration with the local SAFE branch is required to be filed by any Chinese domestic resident that directly or indirectly holds interests in that offshore company upon either (1) the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise to the offshore company, or (2) the completion of any overseas fund raising by such offshore company. An amendment to the registration is also required to be filed by such Chinese domestic resident when there is any material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. Moreover, Circular 75 applies retroactively. As a result, Chinese domestic residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in China in the past are required to complete the relevant overseas investment foreign exchange registration procedures by March 31, 2006. For purposes of SAFE registrations required under Circular 75, “Chinese domestic residents” shall include individuals without mainland China identity papers who have habitually lived in China due to economic interest. On May 29, 2007, SAFE issued updated internal implementing rules (“Implementing Rules”) in relation to foreign exchange registrations made pursuant to Circular 75. Under Circular 75, registration with SAFE is required for any PRC citizen or resident that acquires equity in an offshore special purpose vehicle (“Offshore SPV”) for purposes of attracting overseas financing for a domestic company (“Onshore Company”). The new Implementing Rules may have a significant effect on the registration process as currently undertaken. They also provide for a number of new registration procedures and requirements, some of which could open the doors for SAFE registration of financing structures that have not been permitted previously. 31 Table of Contents The Implementing Rules include a more detailed list of materials to be submitted in support of traditional Circular 75 registration, including: • more detailed information regarding the relevant industry, controlling shareholders and management, and history of the Onshore Company; • the Onshore Company’s financial information for the most recent three years; • signed financing documents or term sheet; and • for registrations by individuals (as opposed to enterprises), audited financial statements of the Onshore Company for the most recently completed audit period. It remains unclear whether the requirement to provide three years of audited financial statements effectively prevents shareholders of Chinese domestic entities with operating histories of less than three years from completing Circular 75 registration. However, preliminary inquiries with the Beijing branch of SAFE suggest that this may be the case. In relation to traditional Circular 75 registrations, the Implementing Rules further require the following: • approval from central SAFE for the formation or control of an Offshore SPV by a Chinese enterprise other than venture capital enterprises (as opposed to individuals); • the Onshore Company is responsible for coordination of the SAFE registrations of its shareholders and reporting of any non-compliance by them by the Onshore Company; and • collective registration of employee option plans through an “entrustment arrangement.” Prior to the issuance of the Implementing Rules, there were no procedures for SAFE registration by PRC citizens or residents who without first establishing an Onshore Company had used offshore funds to set up offshore companies to invest in China. Without such procedures, such transactions could not be undertaken without the risk of violating China’s foreign exchange regulations. Schedule 2 of the Implementing Rules, which permits registration by PRC citizens or residents who inject their “legally owned” offshore assets into an Offshore SPV for the purposes of financing operations in China, potentially provides a channel for registration of this type of transaction. However, in order to complete a Schedule 2 registration, the Offshore SPV must have been in existence for at least two years (or one year in the case of technology or research and development companies). Schedule 3 of the Implementing Rules provides analogous registration procedures for Chinese enterprises wishing to convert a legally established offshore subsidiary into an Offshore SPV. The offshore subsidiary must have been operating for three years prior to converting to an Offshore SPV. The Implementing Rules also provide additional procedural requirements and clarifications, including: • new rules and procedures for the formation or acquisition of a Chinese domestic company by an Offshore SPV. However, proper SAFE registration must have been completed for the Offshore SPV, and the Offshore SPV must have been in existence and operating in compliance with its approved business scope for at least three years; • clarifications regarding “remedial registration” for individuals and enterprises that have completed the round-trip investment using an Offshore SPV (meaning that the related Chinese round-trip invested enterprise has obtained its foreign exchange certificate) but failed to properly complete Circular 75 registration. However, if there has been any distribution of dividends or profits, dissolution, transfers of shares, reduction of capital or payment of principal or interest on any shareholder loan since April 21, 2005 without proper Circular 75 registration, the Onshore Company and its controlling shareholders may be subject to fines or other punishment for evasion of foreign exchange regulations prior to completion of remedial registration; and 32 Table of Contents • new rules and procedures relating to the remittance of gains of PRC citizens or residents from Offshore SPVs into China. We understand that SAFE’s current practice is that for Chinese domestic residents who failed to file SAFE registration under Circular 75 as of March 31, 2006 for the existing special purpose overseas company, the dividends remitted by the Chinese subsidiary to its overseas parent since April 21, 2005 will be deemed illegal and a penalty will be imposed on the Chinese company and its actual controlling person(s). In addition, in the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above, as currently drafted, could result in penalties under PRC foreign exchange administration regulations and liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. As a Cayman Islands company, and therefore an offshore company for purpose of SAFE regulations, if we purchase the assets or equity interest of a Chinese company owned by Chinese domestic residents, including those which we will generate revenue from and exercise control over through agreements, such Chinese domestic residents who become our shareholders will be subject to registration procedures described in the aforementioned SAFE notice. Moreover, Chinese domestic residents who are already our beneficial shareholders may be required to register with SAFE in connection with their shareholdings in us. Failure of any Chinese shareholders of us to register with SAFE may limit our Chinese subsidiary’s ability to distribute dividends to us. The M&A Rules, along with foreign exchange regulations discussed in this subsection, will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, and we cannot predict how they will affect our acquisition strategy. For example, our prospective target or partner’s ability to remit dividends to us, or to engage in foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese domestic residents, over whom we may have no control. In addition, such Chinese domestic residents may be unable to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the SAFE regulations. Such uncertainties may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. Because Chinese law will govern almost all of any target business’ material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. We believe that it is highly likely that Chinese law would govern a substantial portion of any target business’ material agreements, some or many of which could be with Chinese governmental agencies. The target business may be unable to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available within the PRC. The Chinese legal system is similar to a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in the PRC over the past 25 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in the PRC, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new. Due to the limited volume of published judicial decisions, their non-binding nature, the short history since their enactments, the discrete understanding of the judges or government agencies of the same legal provision, inconsistent professional abilities of the judicators, and the inclination to protect local interest in the court rooms, interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material 33 Table of Contents adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in the PRC, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If we acquire a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses in the PRC, such contracts may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of such businesses and may be difficult to enforce. The government of the PRC has restricted or limited foreign ownership of certain kinds of assets and companies operating in certain industries. The industry groups that are restricted are wide ranging, including certain aspects of telecommunications, real estate, and heavy equipment manufacturers, for example. In addition there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or having “famous Chinese brand names” or “well established Chinese brand names.” Subject to the review and approval requirements of the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant agencies as discussed elsewhere for acquisitions of assets and companies in the PRC and subject to the various percentage ownership limitations that exist from time to time, acquisitions involving foreign investors and parties in the various restricted categories of assets and industries may nonetheless sometimes be consummated using contractual arrangements with permitted Chinese parties. To the extent that such agreements are employed, they may be for control of specific assets such as intellectual property or control of blocks of the equity ownership interests of a company which may not be subject to the merger and acquisition regulations mentioned above since these types of arrangements typically do not involve a change of equity ownership in a PRC operating company. The agreements would be designed to provide our company with the economic benefits of and control over the subject assets or equity interests similar to the rights of full ownership, while leaving the technical ownership in the hands of Chinese parties who would be our nominees and, therefore, may exempt the transaction from the merger and acquisition regulations, including the application process required thereunder. However, since there has been limited implementation guidance provided with respect to the merger and acquisition regulations, there can be no assurance that the relevant government agency would not apply them to a business combination effected through contractual arrangements. If such an agency determines that such an application should have been made consequences may include ordering the application to be made with proper government agencies, levying fines, revoking business and other licenses, requiring restructure of ownership or operations and requiring discontinuation of any portion of all of the acquired business. These agreements likely also would provide for increased ownership or full ownership and control by us when and if permitted under PRC law and regulation. If we choose to effect a business combination that employs the use of these types of control arrangements, we may have difficulty enforcing our rights. Therefore these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with the same economic benefits, accounting consolidation or control over a target business as would direct ownership. For example, if the target business or any other entity fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which may not be effective and sufficient to off-set the cost of enforcement and may adversely affect the benefits we expect to receive from the business combination. Moreover, we expect that the contractual arrangements upon which we would be relying would be governed by Chinese law and would be the only basis of providing resolution of disputes which may arise through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with Chinese law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with Chinese legal procedures. Uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual 34 Table of Contents arrangements. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert the effective level of control or receive the full economic benefits of full direct ownership over the target business. Contractual arrangements we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities or acquisitions of offshore entities that conduct PRC operations through affiliates in the PRC may be subject to a high level of scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we enter into with potential future PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow any tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of such potential future PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for any such tax savings, or that any of our possible future affiliated entities are not eligible for tax exemptions, would substantially increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income and the value of a shareholder’s investment. Potential future PRC targets or strategic partners may have previously engaged or may engage in activities without appropriate licenses or approvals or outside the authorized scope of their business licenses or permitted activities. This could subject those companies to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Possible future targets or strategic partners may have previously engaged or may currently engage in activities without appropriate licenses or approvals or outside the authorized scope of their business licenses or permitted activities. If such targets or strategic partners do not receive any necessary licenses or approvals, broaden the authorized business scope or narrow the scope of the activities as appropriate, they may have to cease operations or contract operations to third parties who hold the appropriate licenses. In addition, counterparties to contracts they make when engaging in activities that require licenses may legally default on those contracts if we or the relevant strategic partner do not possess the appropriate licenses. The occurrence of any of these events would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PRC authorities may refuse to grant any licenses that such PRC targets or strategic partners may seek. For companies that exceeded the scope of their business licenses or permitted activities or operated without a license or needed approval in the past but are now compliant, as well as for any companies that may currently operate without the appropriate license or approval or outside the scope of their business license or permitted activities, the relevant PRC authorities have the authority to impose fines or other penalties, sometimes as much as five to ten times the amount of the illegal revenues and may require the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the business license. Due to the inconsistent nature of regulatory enforcements in the PRC, those potential PRC strategic partners that exceeded the scope of their business licenses or permitted activities or operated without the appropriate licenses or approvals in the past or do so in the future may be subject to the above fines or penalties, including, without limitation, the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the business license of one or more of these companies. These fines or penalties may have a material adverse effect on our business. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the SAFE regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in the PRC is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. 35 Table of Contents Generally, the foreign exchange earnings of all PRC enterprises, other than those allowed to be retained by PRC enterprises as recurrent exchange income or specifically exempted under the relevant regulations, are to be sold to designated banks. Retained foreign exchange earnings may need to be kept in foreign exchange bank accounts of designated banks. At present, generally, Chinese enterprises which require foreign exchange for their current account transactions may purchase foreign exchange from designated banks if the application is supported by relevant documents. Furthermore, FIEs that require foreign exchange to pay dividends to their foreign investors may draw funds in their foreign exchange bank accounts kept with designated banks after paying taxes due in respect of the dividends distributed to foreign investors. Should such foreign exchange be insufficient, FIEs may purchase foreign exchange from designated banks. While foreign exchange control on current account transactions has been relaxed, the drawdown of foreign currency loans by companies, the provision of foreign exchange guarantees, overseas investments and any other types of capital account transactions that involve the purchase of foreign exchange remain subject to the approval of SAFE. Furthermore, the PRC has recently tightened its control on the inbound and outbound remittance of foreign exchange and conversion of foreign currencies into Renminbi in connection with foreign investment in the real estate market. Individuals who will purchase and remit foreign currencies outward or sell foreign currencies, must comply with the Regulations of Foreign Exchange Control on Individuals issued by the People’s Bank of China on December 25, 2006, and effective from February 1, 2007 and its implementation rules, issued by SAFE on January 5, 2007 and effective on February 1, 2007. Failure to comply with foreign exchange rules, including Circular 75, which is discussed above in details, may restrict the individuals’ conversion of foreign currencies into or from Renminbi and subject them to a fine. The PRC regulatory authorities may impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. The new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules eliminate the exemptions within the PRC regarding withholding taxes on outgoing dividends. Our Chinese subsidiaries will be required to deduct Chinese withholding taxes from dividends they pay to us, which could significantly impact our return to our shareholders. With the introduction of the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules (effective as of January 1, 2008), beginning from January 1, 2008, the PRC resumed imposition of a withholding tax at 10% on outgoing dividends paid by FIEs unless there is a tax treaty between the PRC and the foreign investor’s home country/jurisdiction that would reduce the withholding tax rate to one lower than 10%. Such changes in tax laws or interpretation of tax laws by the government could significantly impact our return to the investors. The PRC government has enacted a new law on enterprise income tax, and as it implements this law, the tax benefits provided to foreign investors and companies to encourage development within the country may be reduced or removed resulting in expenses may raise impacting margins and net income. On March 16, 2007, the NPC, approved and promulgated a new tax law: the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law or the New Tax Law. In December 2007, the State Council issued a series of rules and circulars for implementing the New Income Tax Law, including the Rules for the Implementation of the New Income Tax Law issued on December 6, 2007, the Circular of the State Council Concerning the Implementation of Transitional Preferential Enterprise Income Tax Policies, Guo Fa [2007] No. 39, issued on December 26, 2007 (the “State Council No. 39 Notice”), and the Circular of the State Council Concerning the Transitional Preferential Tax Benefits for Newly-established High and New Technology Enterprises in Special Economic Zones and Shanghai Pudong New Area, Guo Fa [2007] No. 40., issued on December 26, 2007. The above-mentioned implementation rules and two circulars all took effect on January 1, 2008. 36 Table of Contents Under the New Income Tax Law, FIEs and domestic companies are subject to a uniform income tax rate of 25%. The New Income Tax Law provides a five-year transition period starting from January 1, 2008 for those FIEs which were established before the promulgation date of the New Income Tax Law and which were entitled to a lower tax rate under the then-effective tax law. The tax rate of such enterprises may gradually transition to the uniform tax rate of 25% within the five-year transition period pursuant to the State Council No. 39 Notice. In particular, FIEs which were eligible for the reduced 15% income tax rate will be allowed to pay enterprise income tax at 18% in 2008, 20% in 2009, 22% in 2010 and 24% in 2011; beginning from 2012, these FIEs will be required to pay enterprise income tax at 25%. Those enterprises enjoying the Tax Holidays may continue to enjoy such Tax Holidays until their expiration. If the Tax Holiday has not yet started because the FIE in question still suffers from losses, such Tax Holiday will be deemed to commence from year 2008. While the New Tax Law equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government, whether FIEs or domestic companies. According to the New Tax Law, entities that qualify as high-technology companies especially supported by the PRC government are expected to benefit from a tax rate of 15% as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. We may not qualify as a high technology company supported by the PRC government in the future, and benefit from such preferential tax rate. Following the effectiveness of the New Tax Law, a company’s effective tax rate may increase, unless it is otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. Pursuant to the New Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, effective January 1, 2008, the PRC imposes a 10% withholding tax on outgoing dividends, interest, royalties and capital gains, unless the applicable bilateral tax treaties would reduce the withholding tax on outgoing dividends, interest and royalties other than capital gains to a lower rate (in certain cases, the withholding tax rate on outgoing interest has been reduced to 7%, royalties to 6% and dividends as low as 5%). Additionally, the New Tax Law has introduced the concept of “resident enterprises” and corresponding tax liability on resident enterprises’ worldwide income. With this new tax concept and corresponding tax liability on resident enterprises’ worldwide income, an overseas holding/parent company should avoid having its management functions performed within the PRC. Pursuant to the implementation rules of the New Tax Law, an offshore holding company could be deemed to have an effective place of management in the PRC and accordingly be deemed as a resident enterprise if its management organization in China maintains substantially overall management and control of the operation, personnel, finance and assets of the offshore holding company. With the issuance and implementation of the New Tax Law and its implementation rules, the income tax treatment of Chinese subsidiaries may change, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. Our Chinese subsidiaries are obligated to withhold and pay PRC individual income tax in respect of the salaries and other income received by their employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. If they fail to withhold or pay such individual income tax in accordance with applicable PRC regulations, they may be subject to certain sanctions and other penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Under PRC laws, our Chinese operating company will be obligated to withhold and pay individual income tax in respect of the salaries and other income received by their employees who are subject to PRC individual income tax. Our Chinese subsidiaries may be subject to certain sanctions and other liabilities under PRC laws in case of failure to withhold and pay individual income taxes for their employees in accordance with the applicable laws. 37 Table of Contents In addition, the PRC State Administration of Taxation has issued several circulars concerning employee stock options. Under these circulars, employees working in the PRC (which could include both PRC employees and expatriate employees subject to PRC individual income tax) are required to pay PRC individual income tax in respect of their income derived from exercising or otherwise disposing of their stock options. Our Chinese subsidiary will be obligated to file documents related to employee stock options with relevant tax authorities and withhold and pay individual income taxes for those employees who exercise their stock options. While tax authorities may advise us that our policy is compliant, they may change their policy, and we could be subject to sanctions. 