Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this report, the following discusses certain factors which may affect our financial results and operations and should be considered in evaluating the Company’s future results. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future prospects and financial performance. We began banking operations in March 2004. Because of our limited operating history, it may be difficult to evaluate our business prospects or performance. Our prospects are subject to the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of development, including the risk that we will not be able to implement our business strategies. Accordingly, our financial performance to date may not be representative of our long-term future performance or indicative of whether our business strategies will be successful. If we are unable to generate profits on a consistent basis, our ability to compete effectively could be adversely affected. From inception to the end of 2006, we incurred significant operating losses. We had organizational and pre-opening expenses of $1.6 million, and for the ten months of operations ended on December 31, 2004 and the year ended December 31, 2005, we incurred net losses of $2.8 million and $2.2 million, respectively. In 2006, we experienced net income totaling $145,000 and in 2007, we recorded pretax income totaling $792,000. 15 We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. We have grown substantially since we began operations in March 2004. At December 31, 2007, we had $223.9 million in total assets, $169.9 million in net loans and $161.2 million in deposits. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and manage a growing number of customer relationships. We expect to continue to experience growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Our future level of profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or even be able to grow at all. We rely heavily on our senior management team and other employees, the loss of whom could significantly harm our business. Our success depends heavily on the abilities and continued service of our executive officers, especially Alan I. Rothenberg, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jason P. DiNapoli, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Dan T. Kawamoto, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Donn Jakosky, our Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer, and Paul Manning, our Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Management Officer. These five individuals are integral to implementing our business plan. If we lose the services of any of our executive officers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Furthermore, attracting suitable replacements may be difficult and may require significant management time and resources. We also rely to a significant degree on the abilities and continued service of our deposit generating, lending, administrative, operational, accounting and financial reporting, marketing and technical personnel. Competition for qualified employees in the banking industry is intense and there are a limited number of qualified persons with knowledge of, and experience in, the California independent banking industry. The process of recruiting personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required to carry out our strategies is often lengthy. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary deposit generation, loan, administrative, marketing and technical personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. Lack of seasoning in our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. All loans in our loan portfolio were originated since March 2004. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a portfolio of recently originated loans. Because our loan portfolio is relatively unseasoned, the current level of delinquencies may be below the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned. 16 Until our portfolio becomes more seasoned, we must rely in part on the historical loan loss experience of other financial institutions and the experience of our management in determining our allowance for loan losses, which may not be comparable to what may occur with our portfolio. Because most of the loans in our loan portfolio were originated within the past four years, our loan portfolio does not provide an adequate history of loan losses for our management to rely upon in establishing our allowance for loan losses. We therefore rely to a significant extent upon other financial institutions’ histories of loan losses and their allowance for loan losses, as well as our management’s estimates based on their experience in the banking industry, when determining our loss allowance. The history of loan losses, the reserving policies of other financial institutions and our management’s judgment may not result in reserving policies that will be adequate for our business operations or applicable to our loan portfolio. If our underwriting practices are not effective, we may suffer losses in our loan portfolio and our results of operations may be affected. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Depending on the type of loan, these practices include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the types of loans we make, we cannot assure you that they will be effective in mitigating all risks. If our underwriting criteria prove to be ineffective, we may incur losses in our loan portfolio, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. If our allowance for loan losses is inadequate to cover actual losses, our financial results would be affected. A significant source of risk arises from the possibility that losses could be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. The underwriting and credit monitoring policies and procedures that we have adopted to address this risk may not prevent unexpected losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Unexpected losses may arise for a wide variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our ability to predict, influence or control. Some of these reasons could include a prolonged economic downturn in the State of California, a decline in the California real estate market, changes in the interest rate environment and natural disasters. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our allowance for loan losses reflects our best estimate of the losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date and is based on management’s evaluation of the collectability of the loan portfolio, which evaluation is based on historical loss experience and other significant factors. The determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be 17 beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. While we believe that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover current losses, we cannot assure that we will not increase the allowance for loan losses further or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Bank regulators may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses, which could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Bank regulators, as an integral part of their respective supervisory functions, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. They may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by bank regulators could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our lending limit may adversely affect our competitiveness. Our regulatory lending limit as of December 31, 2007 to any one customer or related group of customers was $9.2 million. Our lending limit is substantially smaller than those of most financial institutions with which we compete. While we believe that our lending limit is sufficient for our targeted market of small to mid-size businesses, and individuals, it may affect our ability to attract or maintain customers or to compete with other financial institutions. Moreover, to the extent that we incur losses and do not obtain additional capital, our lending limit, which depends upon the amount of our capital, will decrease. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services, and our failure to compete effectively with these companies could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Within the Los Angeles metropolitan area we face intense competition for loans, deposits, and other financial products and services. Increased competition within our pricing market may result in reduced loan originations and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Many competitors offer the types of loans and banking services that we offer. These competitors include national banks, regional banks and other independent banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include financial institutions whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous banking locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Additionally, banks and other financial institutions with larger capitalization and financial intermediaries not subject to bank regulatory restrictions may have larger lending limits which would allow them to serve the credit needs of larger customers. These institutions, particularly to the extent they are more diversified than we are, may be able to offer the same loan products and services we offer at more competitive rates and prices. To define banking competition in Century City, where our only office is located, a four zip code area was analyzed, 90024 (Westwood), 90025, 90064 (both West Los Angeles) and 90067 (Century City). We compete against several banks, many of which have greater lending limits, and a wider variety of products and services than us. We also compete against community 18 banks for both loans and deposits. According to the FDIC, as of June 30, 2007, total deposits in the four zip code area equaled $14.3 billion. Within the same territory, Century City (90067) has the largest share of bank deposits at $7.9 billion. We also face competition from out-of-state financial intermediaries that have opened loan production offices or that solicit deposits in our market areas. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. If we cannot attract deposits, our growth may be inhibited. We plan to increase the level of our assets, including our loan portfolio. Our ability to increase our assets depends in large part on our ability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates. We intend to seek additional deposits by continuing to establish and strengthen our personal relationships with our customers and by offering deposit products that are competitive with those offered by other financial institutions in our markets. We cannot ensure that these efforts will be successful. Our inability to attract additional deposits at competitive rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to raise additional capital when needed or on favorable terms could inhibit our growth and could harm our operations. To the extent that our deposits and total assets continue to grow, we may need to increase our capital in order to maintain our compliance with regulatory capital requirements. We may also need additional capital to fund growth in our loan portfolio or in the event we are unable to attract sufficient deposits in order to fund our growth. We cannot predict the timing and amount of our future capital requirements. If our capital needs exceed our earnings, we may seek funding through the capital markets; however, we may not be able to obtain capital when we need to or when it would be advantageous for us to do so. Failure to raise capital when needed could limit or eliminate our ability to grow, or in extreme instances, materially adversely affect our operations. Moreover, even if capital is available, it may be upon terms that are not favorable to existing common shareholders and could dilute their interest. We rely on communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology from third-party service providers, and we may suffer an interruption in or break of those systems that may result in lost business and we may not be able to obtain substitute providers on terms that are as favorable if our relationships with our existing service providers are interrupted. We rely heavily on third-party service providers for much of our communications, information, operating and financial control systems technology, including customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and loan origination systems. Any failure or interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or interruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, servicing and/or loan origination systems. We cannot assure that such failures or interruptions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed by us or the third parties on which we rely. The occurrence of any failures or interruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, 19 financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If any of our third-party service providers experience financial, operational or technological difficulties, or if there is any other disruption in our relationships with them, we may be required to locate alternative sources of such services, and we cannot assure that we could negotiate terms that are as favorable to us, or could obtain services with similar functionality as found in our existing systems without the need to expend substantial resources, if at all. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may experience certain risks in connection with our online banking services that could adversely affect our business. Our business will depend in part upon the use of the internet and online services as a medium for banking and commerce by customers. Our inability to modify or adapt our infrastructure in a timely manner or the expenses incurred in making such adaptations could hurt our business. Additionally, any compromise in the secured transmission of confidential information over public networks could hurt our business. Changes in economic conditions, and in particular a prolonged economic slowdown in the State of California, could hurt our business materially. Our business is directly affected by factors such as economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. We are particularly susceptible to conditions and changes affecting the State of California and Southern California in view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing, and likely to secure, our loan portfolio in Southern California. Deterioration in economic conditions, in California and Southern California in particular, could result in the following consequences, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: · Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; · Loan delinquencies may increase; · Demand for loans and our other products and services may decline; · Deposits may decrease; and · Collateral for loans made by us, especially real estate, may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power or capacity to repay, and reducing the value of assets and collateral associated with our existing loans. In addition, because we plan to make loans to small to medium-sized businesses, many of our customers may be particularly susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to make scheduled principal or interest payments during these periods. 20 Many of our loans will be secured by real estate, and a downturn in the real estate market could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A downturn in real estate market could hurt our business because we anticipate that most of our loans will be secured by real estate. At December 31, 2007, approximately 40.1% of our total loans consisted of various real estate loans. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by changes in national, regional or local economic conditions, fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers, changes in tax laws and other laws, regulations and policies and acts of nature. In addition, real estate values in California could be affected by, among other things, earthquakes and national disasters particular to the state. If real estate prices decline, the value of real estate collateral securing our loans will be reduced. As a result, we may experience greater charge-offs and, similarly, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. A natural disaster or recurring energy shortage, especially in California, could harm our business. Historically, Southern California has been vulnerable to natural disasters. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, floods and mudslides. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. Uninsured or underinsured disasters may reduce a borrower’s ability to repay mortgage loans. Disasters may also reduce the value of the real estate securing our loans, impairing our ability to recover on defaulted loans. Southern California has also experienced energy shortages which, if they recur, could impair the value of the real estate in those areas affected. The occurrence of natural disasters or energy shortages in Southern California could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operations are concentrated in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. Our loan activities are largely based in the Los Angeles metropolitan area. To a lesser extent, our deposit base is also generated from this area. As a result, our financial performance will depend largely upon economic conditions in this area. Adverse local economic conditions could cause us to experience an increase in loan delinquencies, a reduction in deposits, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which could adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to extensive government regulation, and these regulations may hamper our ability to increase assets and earnings and could result in a decrease in the value of the shares. Our operations are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state and local governmental authorities and are subject to various laws and judicial and administrative decisions imposing requirements and restrictions on part or all of our operations. Because our business is highly regulated, the laws, rules and regulations applicable to us are subject to regular modification and change, which may have the effect of increasing or decreasing the cost of doing business, modifying permissible activities or enhancing the competitive position of other 21 financial institutions. These laws are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds and not for the protection of shareholders of bank holding companies or banks. There are currently proposed various laws, rules and regulations that, if adopted, would impact our operations. We cannot assure that these proposed laws, rules and regulations or any other laws, rules or regulations will not be adopted in the future, which could make compliance much more difficult or expensive, restrict our ability to originate, further limit or restrict the amount of commissions, interest or other charges earned on loans originated by us or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. The threat of terrorism has created uncertainty and further terrorist acts on the United States could depress the economy. The terrorist attacks and international conflicts of recent years have resulted in continued uncertainty regarding the economic outlook of the United States. The possibility of further terrorist attacks, as well as continued terrorist threats, may prolong the depth and length of this economic uncertainty. Future terrorist acts and responses to such activities could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including an increase in delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults that could result in a higher level of non-performing assets, net charge-offs and provision for loan losses. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows and the value of our assets depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits, it will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and our costs in doing so. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. Our earnings 22 could also be adversely affected if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 