ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS These are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of these factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. These risks are not the only ones we face. Please also see “FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS” earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may be unable to maintain profitability. We experienced net losses of $5.4 million for 2008. During the third quarter of 2008, we achieved profitability and reported net income for the first time. We reported net income of $8.8 million for 2009, $21.1 million for 2010, $5.8 million for 2011 and $3.6 million for 2012. We cannot predict if we will sustain this profitability or, if we fail to sustain this profitability, attain profitability again in the near future or at all. We expect to continue making significant future expenditures to develop and expand our business. Our growth in revenue and customer base may not be sustainable, and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this report and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown events. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain profitability, and we may incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. 13 Table of Contents Growth of our business may be adversely affected if businesses, IT support providers or consumers do not adopt remote access, support and collaboration solutions more widely. Our services employ new and emerging technologies for remote access, support and collaboration. Our target customers may hesitate to accept the risks inherent in applying and relying on new technologies or methodologies to supplant traditional methods of remote connectivity. Our business will not be successful if our target customers do not accept the use of our remote access and remote support technologies. We are currently litigating two separate patent infringement disputes and an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are currently defending a patent infringement allegation brought against us by 01 Communique Laboratory, Inc. in the Eastern District of Virginia, with a trial scheduled to begin on March 18, 2013. At this time, we cannot reasonably estimate our potential liability, if any, in connection with this matter. However, any adverse outcome in this matter, which could include any of the following, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations: • An injunction being imposed against us, which could significantly restrict or prohibit our ability to offer all or a portion of our services to customers; • An adverse judgment against us for significant monetary damages, including on-going license fees and royalties; • A settlement on unfavorable terms; and/or • The triggering of certain contractual obligations to customers related to indemnification or a breach of a contractual warranty of non-infringement. We have also filed a Declaratory Judgment action against Pragmatus Telecom LLC, or Pragmatus, in the District of Delaware and Pragmatus has since asserted counterclaims against us. An unfavorable outcome in this matter could also adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. For additional information concerning our pending patent infringement disputes, please refer to Part II, Item 3 entitled “Legal Proceedings” and note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. Assertions by a third party that our services and solutions infringe its intellectual property, whether or not correct, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses. There is frequent litigation in the software and technology industries based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to third party patent infringement or other intellectual property-related lawsuits as we face increasing competition and become increasingly visible. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to develop a non-infringing technology or enter into license agreements. There can be no assurance that such licenses will be available on acceptable terms and conditions, if at all, and although we have previously licensed proprietary technology, we cannot be certain that the owners’ rights in such technology will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. For these reasons and because of the potential for court awards that are difficult to predict, it is not unusual to find even arguably unmeritorious claims settled for significant amounts. In addition, many of our service agreements require us to indemnify our customers from certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, deter future customers from subscribing to our services or expose us to further litigation. These costs, monetary or otherwise, associated with defending against third party allegations of infringement could have negative effects on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on search engines to attract a significant percentage of our customers, and if those search engines change their listings or increase their pricing, it would limit our ability to attract new customers. Many of our customers locate our website through search engines, such as Google. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings, and we rely on both types. 14 Table of Contents Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by the search engine. Search engines revise their algorithms from time to time in an attempt to optimize search result listings. If the search engines on which we rely for algorithmic listings modify their algorithms in a manner that reduces the prominence of our listing, fewer potential customers may click through to our website, requiring us to resort to other costly resources to replace this traffic. Any failure to replace this traffic could reduce our revenue and increase our costs. In addition, costs for purchased listings have increased in the past and may increase in the future, and further increases could have negative effects on our financial condition. If we are unable to attract new customers to our services on a cost-effective basis, our revenue and results of operations will be adversely affected. We must continue to attract a large number of customers on a cost-effective basis, many of whom have not previously used on-demand, remote-connectivity solutions. We rely on a variety of marketing methods to attract new customers to our services, such as paying providers of online services and search engines for advertising space and priority placement of our website in response to Internet searches. Our ability to attract new customers also depends on the competitiveness of the pricing of our services. If our current marketing initiatives are not successful or become unavailable, if the cost of such initiatives were to significantly increase, or if our competitors offer similar services at lower prices, we may not be able to attract new customers on a cost-effective basis and, as a result, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We sell our services pursuant to agreements that are generally one year in duration. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their subscription period expires, and these subscriptions may not be renewed on the same or on more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to grow depends in part on subscription renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. If we fail to convert our free users to paying customers, our revenue and financial results will be harmed. A significant portion of our user base utilizes our services free of charge through our free services or free trials of our premium services. We seek to convert these free and trial users to paying customers of our premium services. If our rate of conversion suffers for any reason, our revenue may decline and our business may suffer. Our business strategy includes acquiring or investing in other companies, which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. Our business strategy includes acquiring complementary services, technologies or businesses. For example, in July 2011 we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Connected Environments (BVI) Ltd. and Connected Environments Ltd. and their Cosm service and in January 2012 we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Bold Software, LLC and its BoldChat service. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our portfolio of services or our ability to provide our services in foreign jurisdictions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. An acquisition, investment or new business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired 15 Table of Contents company choose not to work for us, the company’s software is not easily adapted to work with ours or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities. For one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. We expect that integrating an acquired company’s operations may present challenges. The integration of an acquired company such as our recent acquisition of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Connected Environments (BVI) Ltd. and Connected Environments Ltd. and their Cosm service and our recent acquisition of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of Bold Software, LLC and its BoldChat service requires, among other things, coordination of administrative, sales and marketing, accounting and finance functions and expansion of information and management systems. Integration may prove to be difficult initially due to the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations and integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and corporate cultures. We may not be able to retain key employees of Connected Environments, Bold Software or any other acquired company. Additionally, the process of integrating a new product or service may require a disproportionate amount of time and attention of our management and financial and other resources. Any difficulties or problems encountered in the integration of a new product or service could have a material adverse effect on our business. The integration of an acquired company may cost more than we anticipate, and it is possible that we will incur significant additional unforeseen costs in connection with the integration that may negatively impact our earnings. In addition, we may only be able to conduct limited due diligence on an acquired company’s operations. Following an acquisition, we may be subject to unforeseen liabilities arising from an acquired company’s past or present operations. These liabilities may be greater than the warranty and indemnity limitations we negotiate. Any unforeseen liability that is greater than these warranty and indemnity limitations could have a negative impact on our financial condition. Even if successfully integrated, there can be no assurance that our operating performance after an acquisition will be successful or will fulfill management’s objectives. We use a limited number of data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. We host our services and serve all of our customers from five third-party data center facilities, of which four are located in the United States and one is located in Europe. We do not control the operation of these facilities. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. 16 Table of Contents Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. At least one of our data facilities is located in an area known for seismic activity, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, or vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be exposed to liability and a loss of customers. Our system stores our customers’ confidential information, including credit card information and other critical data. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are difficult to recognize and react to. We and our third-party data center facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures. In addition, many states have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving their personal data. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity, which may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether successful or not, would harm our reputation, and it could cause the loss of customers. Failure to comply with data protection standards may cause us to lose the ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option which would increase our costs of processing customer orders and make our services less attractive to our customers, the majority of which purchase our services with a credit card. Major credit card issuers have adopted data protection standards and have incorporated these standards into their contracts with us. If we fail to maintain our compliance with the data protection and documentation standards adopted by the major credit card issuers and applicable to us, these issuers could terminate their agreements with us, and we could lose our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option. Most of our individual and SMB customers purchase our services online with a credit card, and our business depends substantially upon our ability to offer the credit card payment option. Any loss of our ability to offer our customers a credit card payment option would make our services less attractive to them and hurt our business. Our administrative costs related to customer payment processing would also increase significantly if we were not able to accept credit card payments for our services. Failure to effectively and efficiently service SMBs would adversely affect our ability to increase our revenue. We market and sell a significant amount of our services to SMBs. SMBs are challenging to reach, acquire and retain in a cost-effective manner. To grow our revenue quickly, we must add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions. Selling to and retaining SMBs is more difficult than selling to and retaining large enterprise customers because SMB customers generally: • have high failure rates; • are price sensitive; 17 Table of Contents • are difficult to reach with targeted sales campaigns; • have high churn rates in part because of the scale of their businesses and the ease of switching services; and • generate less revenues per customer and per transaction. In addition, SMBs frequently have limited budgets and may choose to spend funds on items other than our services. Moreover, SMBs are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established companies, and if these organizations experience economic hardship, they may be unwilling or unable to expend resources on IT. If we are unable to market and sell our services to SMBs with competitive pricing and in a cost-effective manner, our ability to grow our revenue quickly and become profitable will be harmed. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new services, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The on-demand, cloud-based, remote-connectivity solutions market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing services, introduce new services and sell into new markets. To achieve market acceptance for our services, we must effectively anticipate and offer services that meet changing customer demands in a timely manner. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current services do not have. If we fail to develop services that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew our services with existing customers and our ability to create or increase demand for our services will be harmed. We may experience difficulties with software development, industry standards, design or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new services and enhancements. The introduction of new services by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing service offerings could render our existing or future services obsolete. If our services become obsolete due to wide-spread adoption of alternative connectivity technologies such as other Web-based computing solutions, our ability to generate revenue may be impaired. In addition, any new markets into which we attempt to sell our services, including new countries or regions, may not be receptive. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new services, enhance our existing services to anticipate and meet customer preferences or sell our services into new markets, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. The market in which we participate is competitive, with low barriers to entry, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed. The markets for remote-connectivity solutions are competitive and rapidly changing, with relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margins or the failure of our services to achieve or maintain widespread market acceptance. Often we compete against existing services that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to acquire and implement. Certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower priced, or free, products or services that compete with our solutions. This competition may result in reduced prices and a substantial loss of customers for our solutions or a reduction in our revenue. We compete with Citrix Systems, WebEx (a division of Cisco Systems) and others. Certain of our solutions, including our free remote access service, also compete with current or potential services offered by Microsoft and Apple. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied services and larger marketing budgets, as well as greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing 18 Table of Contents relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. If we are not able to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive service than they individually had offered. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships or strategic relationships. We expect these trends to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions. Many of the companies driving this trend have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary services and technologies. The companies resulting from such combinations may create more compelling service offerings and may offer greater pricing flexibility than we can or may engage in business practices that make it more difficult for us to compete effectively, including on the basis of price, sales and marketing programs, technology or service functionality. These pressures could result in a substantial loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues. Original equipment manufacturers may adopt solutions provided by our competitors. Original equipment manufacturers may in the future seek to build the capability for on-demand, remote-connectivity solutions into their products. We may compete with our competitors to sell our services to, or partner with, these manufacturers. Our ability to attract and partner with these manufacturers will, in large part, depend on the competitiveness of our services. If we fail to attract or partner with, or our competitors are successful in attracting or partnering with, these manufacturers, our revenue and results of operations would be affected adversely. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly operating results or guidance fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results or guidance may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below: • our ability to renew existing customers, increase sales to existing customers and attract new customers; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures related to the operation, maintenance and expansion of our business; • service outages or security breaches; • whether we meet the service level commitments in our agreements with our customers; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the timing and success of new application and service introductions and upgrades by us or our competitors; • changes in sales compensation plans or organizational structure; • the timing of costs related to the development or acquisition of technologies, services or businesses; • seasonal variations or other cyclicality in the demand for our services; • general economic, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to Internet usage and online businesses; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • the purchasing and budgeting cycles of our customers; • the financial condition of our customers; and • geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist acts. 19 Table of Contents We believe that our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on past results as an indication of future performance. If our services are used to commit fraud or other similar intentional or illegal acts, we may incur significant liabilities, our services may be perceived as not secure and customers may curtail or stop using our services. Our services enable direct remote access to third-party computer systems. We do not control the use or content of information accessed by our customers through our services. If our services are used to commit fraud or other bad or illegal acts, such as posting, distributing or transmitting any software or other computer files that contain a virus or other harmful component, interfering or disrupting third-party networks, infringing any third party’s copyright, patent, trademark, trade secret or other proprietary rights or rights of publicity or privacy, transmitting any unlawful, harassing, libelous, abusive, threatening, vulgar or otherwise objectionable material, or accessing unauthorized third-party data, we may become subject to claims for defamation, negligence, intellectual property infringement or other matters. As a result, defending such claims could be expensive and time-consuming, and we could incur significant liability to our customers and to individuals or businesses who were the targets of such acts. As a result, our business may suffer and our reputation will be damaged. We provide minimum service level commitments to some of our customers, the failure of which to meet could cause us to issue credits for future services or pay penalties, which could significantly harm our revenue. Some of our customer agreements now, and may in the future, provide minimum service level commitments regarding items such as uptime, functionality or performance. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments for these customers or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our service, we are or may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future services or pay other penalties. Our revenue could be significantly impacted if we are unable to meet our service level commitments and are required to provide a significant amount of our services at no cost or pay other penalties. We do not currently have any reserves on our balance sheet for these commitments. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We increased our revenue from $51.7 million in 2008 to $74.4 million in 2009 to $101.1 million in 2010 to $119.5 million in 2011 and to $138.8 million in 2012. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations both domestically and internationally. Creating a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross profit or operating expenses in any particular quarter. If we do not effectively expand and train our work force, our future operating results will suffer. We plan to continue to expand our work force both domestically and internationally to increase our customer base and revenue. We believe that there is significant competition for qualified personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and, in most cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals. If our recruiting, training and retention efforts are not successful or do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue, our business will be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Our sales cycles for enterprise customers, which currently account for approximately 10 to 15% of our overall sales, can be long, unpredictable and require considerable time and expense, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. The timing of our revenue from sales to enterprise customers is difficult to predict. These efforts require us to educate our customers about the use and benefit of our services, including the technical capabilities and potential cost savings to an organization. Enterprise customers typically undertake a significant evaluation process that has in the past resulted in a lengthy sales cycle, typically several months. We spend substantial time, effort and money on our enterprise sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. In addition, service subscriptions are frequently subject to budget constraints and unplanned administrative, processing and other delays. If sales expected from a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized in that quarter or at all, our results could fall short of public expectations and our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. We currently maintain offices and have sales personnel or independent consultants outside of the United States and are expanding our international operations. Our international expansion efforts may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: • localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; • lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added or other tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Adverse economic conditions or reduced IT spending may adversely impact our revenues and profitability. Our business depends on the overall demand for IT and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. The use of our service is often discretionary and may involve a commitment of capital and other resources. Weak economic conditions in the United States, European Union and other key international economies may affect the rate of IT spending and could adversely impact our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our services, delay prospective customers’ purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect renewal rates, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Our success depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the Internet and the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. Because our services are designed to work over the Internet, our revenue growth depends on our customers’ high-speed access to the Internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the Internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our services will depend on third-party Internet service providers to expand high-speed Internet access, to maintain a reliable network with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and to develop complementary products and services, including high-speed modems, for providing reliable and timely Internet access and services. The success of our business depends directly on the continued accessibility, maintenance and improvement of the Internet as a convenient means of customer interaction, as well as an efficient medium for the delivery and distribution of information by businesses to their employees. All of these factors are out of our control. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any future Internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers. Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. In addition, we have one issued patent and three patents pending, and we are in the process of filing additional patents. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Any patents that may issue in the future from pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technologies licensed by us incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our services that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our services that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. 22 Table of Contents We rely on third-party software, including server software and licenses from third parties to use patented intellectual property that is required for the development of our services, which may be difficult to obtain or which could cause errors or failures of our services. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer our services, including server software from Microsoft and patented third-party technology. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our services, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software required for the development and maintenance of our services could result in delays in the provision of our services until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our services which could harm our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort. Our internal controls over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report from our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We have documented, tested and improved, to the extent necessary, our internal controls over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2012. If in the future we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, or if as part of our process of documenting and testing our internal controls over financial reporting, we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify deficiencies or areas for further attention and improvement, implementing appropriate changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our services to new and existing customers. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our services, and new errors in our existing services may be detected in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: • a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; • sales credits or refunds to our customers; • loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; • diversion of development resources; • harm to our reputation; and • increased insurance costs. 23 Table of Contents After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce and of the international exchange of certain technologies is subject to possible unfavorable changes, and our failure to comply with applicable regulations could harm our business and operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products and services. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting the exchange of information over the Internet could result in reduced growth or a decline in the use of the Internet and could diminish the viability of our Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. Our software products contain encryption technologies, certain types of which are subject to U.S. and foreign export control regulations and, in some foreign countries, restrictions on importation and/or use. We have submitted our encryption products for technical review under U.S. export regulations and have received the necessary approvals. Any failure on our part to comply with encryption or other applicable export control requirements could result in financial penalties or other sanctions under the U.S. export regulations, which could harm our business and operating results. Foreign regulatory restrictions could impair our access to technologies that we seek for improving our products and services and may also limit or reduce the demand for our products and services outside of the United States. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales or other related taxes for our subscription services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so. Primarily due to the nature of our services in certain states and countries, we do not believe we are required to collect sales or other related taxes from our customers in certain states or countries. However, one or more other states or countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us, including for past sales by us or our resellers and other partners. A successful assertion that we should be collecting sales or other related taxes on our services could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing our services or otherwise harm our business and operating results. In September 2011, we agreed to make a payment in the amount of $1.3 million to resolve uncollected sales tax claims with a state tax assessor’s office. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical and sales personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Technical Officer. These officers are not party to an employment agreement with us, and they may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of these officers likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these officers may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, software and manufacturing companies. For example, our competitors may be able attract and retain a more qualified engineering team by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new engineers and retain our current engineers, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenues would decrease. 24 Table of Contents Our business is substantially dependent on market demand for, and acceptance of, the on-demand model for the use of software. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from the sale of on-demand solutions. As a result, widespread acceptance and use of the on-demand business model is critical to our future growth and success. Under the perpetual or periodic license model for software procurement, users of the software typically run applications on their hardware. Because companies are generally predisposed to maintaining control of their IT systems and infrastructure, there may be resistance to the concept of accessing the functionality that software provides as a service through a third party. If the market for on-demand, software solutions fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our services could be negatively affected. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in our services could reduce our ability to compete successfully. We may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests, and the per share value of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our services; • continue to expand our development, sales and marketing organizations; • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; • expand our operations, in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Our stock price may be volatile, and the market price of our common stock may drop in the future. Prior to the completion of our initial public offering, or IPO, in July 2009, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. During the period from our IPO until February 22, 2013, our common stock has traded as high as $49.50 and as low as $15.15. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not develop or be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • fluctuations in our recorded revenue, even during periods of significant sales order activity; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our services to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products or services; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; 25 Table of Contents • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both, including announcements regarding developments in on-going litigation matters; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general perception of the future of the remote-connectivity market or our services; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market at any time, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that such existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who cover us or may cover us in the future change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us or may cover us in the future were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our management has broad discretion over the use of our existing cash resources and might not use such funds in ways that increase the value of our common stock. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to use our cash resources. Our management might not apply these cash resources in ways that increase the value of our common stock. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, stockholders must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on the value of their shares of our common stock. As a public company, we incur significant additional costs which could harm our operating results. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with current corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically. We expect these rules and regulations to substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain director 26 Table of Contents and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. Certain stockholders could attempt to influence changes within the Company which could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Stockholders of the Company may from time-to-time seek to acquire a controlling stake in our Company, engage in proxy solicitations, advance shareholder proposals or otherwise attempt to effect changes. Campaigns by stockholders to effect changes at publicly traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases or sales of assets or the entire Company. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by activist stockholders can be costly and time-consuming, disrupting the Company’s operations and diverting the attention of the Company’s Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies. These actions could adversely affect the Company’s operations, financial condition and the value of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings; • providing the board of directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings; • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board of directors and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents 