ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could suffer. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us and we caution that this list of risk factors may not be exhaustive. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time which we cannot predict. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in the general economy and the cyclical nature of our markets could harm our operations and financial performance. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets we serve and on the general condition of the global economy. Any sustained weakness in demand, downturn or uncertainty in the global economy could reduce our sales and profitability, and result in restructuring efforts. Restructuring efforts are inherently risky and we may not be able to predict the cost and timing of such actions accurately or properly estimate the impact on demand, if any. We also may not be able to realize the anticipated savings we expected from restructuring activities. In addition, our products are sold in many industries, some of which are cyclical and may experience periodic downturns. Cyclical weakness in the industries we serve could lead to reduced demand for our products and affect our profitability and financial performance. In 2010 the effects of the global economic slowdown started to recede in some markets but we still see sluggish demand and less than robust growth in certain areas. We believe that many of our customers and suppliers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and in some cases, require external financing to purchase products or finance operations. Lack of liquidity or inability to access the credit markets by our customers could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us. Further, lack of liquidity by financial institutions could impact our ability to fully access our existing credit facility. The majority of our sales are derived from international operations. We are subject to specific risks associated with international operations. In the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived approximately 66% of our sales from operations outside of the U.S. and have manufacturing facilities in eight countries. Sales from international operations, export sales and the use of manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S. are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include: Ÿ economic instability; Ÿ partial or total expropriation of our international assets; Ÿ trade protection measures, including tariffs or import-export restrictions; Ÿ currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; Ÿ significant adverse changes in taxation policies or other laws or regulations; and Ÿ the disruption of operations from political disturbances, terrorist activities, insurrection or war. 10 Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates may harm our financial results. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 66% of our sales were derived from operations outside the U.S. A significant portion of our revenues and income are denominated in Euros, Swedish Kronor and Norwegian Kroner. Consequently, depreciation of the Euro, Krona or Krone against the U.S. dollar has a negative impact on the income from operations of our European operations. Large fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the Euro, the Krona, the Krone and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we do not engage to a material extent in hedging activities intended to offset the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on the availability of raw materials, as well as parts and components used in our products. While we manufacture many of the parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any significant change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, delays in delivery of components or raw materials by our suppliers could cause delays in our delivery of products to our customers. The markets we serve are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have resources superior to ours. Responding to this competition could reduce our sales and operating margins. We sell most of our products in highly fragmented and competitive markets. We believe that the principal elements of competition in our markets are: Ÿ the ability to meet customer specifications; Ÿ application expertise and design and engineering capabilities; Ÿ product quality and brand name; Ÿ timeliness of delivery; Ÿ price; and Ÿ quality of aftermarket sales and support. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we intend to continue our investment in manufacturing quality, marketing, customer service and support, and distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and research and development resources than we have. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. In addition, pricing pressures could cause us to lower the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we fail to compete successfully, the failure may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Acquisitions have formed a significant part of our growth strategy in the past and are expected to continue to do so. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire or realize the intended benefits, our growth strategy may not succeed. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks related to integration and undisclosed or underestimated liabilities. Historically, our business strategy has relied on acquisitions. We expect to derive a significant portion of our growth by acquiring businesses and integrating those businesses into our existing operations. We intend to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in our existing markets. However, our ability to do so will depend on a number of steps, including our ability to: 11 Ÿ identify suitable acquisition candidates; Ÿ negotiate appropriate acquisition terms; Ÿ obtain debt or equity financing that we may need to complete proposed acquisitions; Ÿ complete the proposed acquisitions; and Ÿ integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. If we fail to achieve any of these steps, our growth strategy may not be successful. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired company, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company and the diversion of our management’s attention from other business concerns. This is the case particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the completion of an acquisition because the operations of the acquired business are integrated into the acquiring businesses’ operations during this period. We cannot be sure that we will accurately anticipate all of the changing demands that any future acquisition may impose on our management, our operational and management information systems and our financial systems. We may underestimate or fail to discover liabilities relating to a future acquisition during the due diligence investigation and we, as the successor owner, might be responsible for those liabilities. For example, two of our acquired subsidiaries are each one of many defendants in a large number of lawsuits that claim personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos from products manufactured with components that are alleged to have contained asbestos. Although our due diligence investigations in connection with these acquisitions uncovered the existence of potential asbestos-related liabilities, the scope of such liabilities were greater than we had originally estimated. Although we seek to minimize the impact of underestimated or potential undiscovered liabilities by structuring acquisitions to minimize liabilities and obtaining indemnities and warranties from the selling party, these methods may not fully protect us from the impact of undiscovered liabilities. Indemnities or warranties are often limited in scope, amount or duration, and may not fully cover the liabilities for which they were intended. The liabilities that are not covered by the limited indemnities or warranties could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We may require additional capital to finance our operating needs and to finance our growth. If the terms on which the additional capital is available are unsatisfactory, if the additional capital is not available at all or we are not able to fully access our existing credit facility, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy. Our growth strategy will require additional capital investment to complete acquisitions, integrate the completed acquisitions into our existing operations, and to expand into new markets. We intend to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes, assumption of indebtedness or any combination of the foregoing. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash internally to provide the capital we require to fund our growth strategy and future operations, we will require additional debt or equity financing. We cannot be sure that this additional financing will be available or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. Further, high volatility in the equity markets and in our stock price may make it difficult for us to access the equity markets for additional capital at attractive prices, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, it may limit our ability to implement fully our business strategy. Even if future debt financing is available, it may result in (1) increased interest expense, (2) increased term loan payments, (3) increased leverage, and (4) decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. It may also limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If future equity financing is available, issuances of our equity securities may dilute our existing stockholders. In addition, our credit facility agreement includes restrictive covenants which could limit our financial flexibility. If we do not maintain compliance with these covenants, our creditors could declare a default. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our indebtedness may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. 12 A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand. If operations at our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance which we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Efforts to realign our operating platform could disrupt our business and affect our results of operations. In recognition of our evolving global business, we are moving from a business-unit structure to a global-functional operating structure. We believe this strategic realignment will better allow us to deliver customer-centric fluid handling solutions. Inherent in any realignment of operations are risks related to our ability to structure our business in a way that accomplishes our goals and best responds to customer needs without causing disruption to our ongoing business. Available insurance coverage, the number of future asbestos-related claims and the average settlement value of current and future asbestos-related claims of two of our subsidiaries could be different than we have estimated, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Two of our subsidiaries are each one of many defendants in a large number of lawsuits that claim personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos from products manufactured with components that are alleged to have contained asbestos. Such components were acquired from third-party suppliers and were not manufactured by any of our subsidiaries nor were the subsidiaries producers or direct suppliers of asbestos. For purposes of our financial statements, we have estimated the future claims exposure and the amount of insurance available based upon certain assumptions with respect to future claims and liability costs. We estimate the liability costs to be incurred in resolving pending and forecasted claims for the next 15-year period. Our decision to use a 15-year period is based on our belief that this is the extent of our ability to forecast liability costs. We also estimate the amount of insurance proceeds available for such claims based on the current financial strength of the various insurers, our estimate of the likelihood of payment and applicable current law. We reevaluate these estimates regularly. Although we believe our current estimates are reasonable, a change in the time period used for forecasting our liability costs, the actual number of future claims brought against us, the cost of resolving these claims, the likelihood of payment by, and the solvency of, insurers and the amount of remaining insurance available could be substantially different than our estimates, and future revaluation of our liabilities and insurance recoverables could result in material adjustments to these estimates, any of which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, the company incurs defense costs related to those claims, a portion of which has historically been reimbursed by our insurers. We also incur litigation costs in connection with actions against certain of the subsidiaries’ insurers relating to insurance coverage. While these costs may be significant, we may not be able to predict the amount or duration of such costs. Additionally, we may experience delays in receiving reimbursement from insurers, during which time we may be required to pay cash for settlement or legal defense costs. Any increase in the actual number of future claims brought against us, the defense costs of resolving these claims, the cost of pursuing claims against our insurers, the likelihood and timing of payment by, and the solvency of, insurers and the amount of remaining insurance available, could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 13 Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of the United States and many foreign countries. Failure to comply with these laws may affect our ability to conduct business in certain countries and may affect our financial performance. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, and the regulations of various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international sales and manufacturing operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which some of our products may be manufactured or sold, or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. Our foreign subsidiaries have done and may continue to do business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes, including Iran and Syria, and we have limited managerial oversight over those activities. Failure to comply with these sanctions and embargoes may result in enforcement or other regulatory actions. From time to time, certain of our foreign subsidiaries sell products to companies and entities located in, or controlled by the governments of, certain countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or the United Nations, such as Iran and Syria. With the exception of the U.S. sanctions against Cuba, the applicable sanctions and embargoes generally do not prohibit our foreign subsidiaries from selling non-U.S.-origin products and services in those countries. However, Colfax Corporation, its U.S. personnel and its domestic subsidiaries, as well as employees of our foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, are prohibited from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in those countries. These constraints may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities. We cannot be certain that our attempts to comply with U.S. sanction laws and embargoes will be effective, and as a consequence we may face enforcement or other actions if our compliance efforts are not effective. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in substantial fines or other sanctions which could result in substantial costs. In addition, Iran and Syria currently are identified by the State Department as state sponsors of terrorism, and may be subject to increasingly restrictive sanctions. Because certain of our foreign subsidiaries have contact with and transact business in such countries, including sales to enterprises controlled by agencies of the governments of such countries, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Further, certain U.S. states and municipalities have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as state sponsors of terrorism and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as ours or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. In addition, one of our foreign subsidiaries made a small number of sales from 2003 through 2007 totaling approximately $60,000 in the aggregate to two customers in Cuba which may have been made in violation of regulations of the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Cuba is also identified by the U.S. State Department as a state sponsor of terrorism. We have submitted a disclosure report to OFAC regarding these transactions. On December 5, 2008, the Company executed a tolling agreement with the OFAC extending the statute of limitations for the investigation until May 1, 2011. As a result of these sales, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions. If we fail to comply with export control regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or other sanctions. Some of our products manufactured or assembled in the United States are subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which require that we obtain an export license before we can export such products to specified countries. Additionally, some of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which restrict the export of certain military or intelligence-related items, technologies and services to non-U.S. persons. Failure to comply with these laws could harm our business by subjecting us to sanctions by the U.S. government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from U.S. government contracts. 14 Approximately 49% of our employees are represented by foreign trade unions. If the representation committees responsible for negotiating with these unions on our behalf are unsuccessful in negotiating new and acceptable agreements when the existing agreements with our employees covered by the unions expire or if the foreign trade unions chose not to support our restructuring programs, we could experience business disruptions or increased costs. As of December 31, 2010, we had 1,524 employees in foreign locations. In certain countries, labor and employment laws are more restrictive than in the U.S. and, in many cases, grant significant job protection to employees, including rights on termination of employment. In Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, by law, some of our employees are represented by trade unions in these jurisdictions, which subjects us to employment arrangements very similar to collective bargaining agreements. If our employees represented by foreign trade unions were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Such disruption could interfere with our business operations and could lead to decreased productivity, increased labor costs and lost revenue. Although we have not experienced any material recent strikes or work stoppages, we cannot offer any assurance that the representation committees that negotiate with the foreign trade unions on our behalf will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements or other employment arrangements when the current ones expire. Furthermore, future labor negotiations could result in significant increases in our labor costs. Our manufacturing business is subject to the possibility of product liability lawsuits, which could harm our business. In addition to the asbestos-related liability claims described above, as the manufacturer of equipment for use in industrial markets, we face an inherent risk of exposure to other product liability claims. Although we maintain quality controls and procedures, we cannot be sure that our products will be free from defects. In addition, some of our products contain components manufactured by third parties, which may also have defects. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims. Our insurance policies have limits, however, that may not be sufficient to cover claims made against us. In addition, this insurance may not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost. With respect to components manufactured by third-party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we seek from our third-party suppliers may be limited and thus insufficient to cover claims made against us. If our insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is insufficient to satisfy product liability claims made against us, the claims could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even claims without merit could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our products, cause us to incur substantial legal costs and distract the attention of our management. As a manufacturer, we are subject to a variety of environmental and health and safety laws for which compliance could be costly. In addition, if we fail to comply with such laws, we could incur liability that could result in penalties and costs to correct any non-compliance. Our business is subject to international, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions of: regulated air pollutants; discharges of wastewater and storm water; storage and handling of raw materials; generation, storage, transportation and disposal of regulated wastes; and worker safety. These requirements impose on our business certain responsibilities, including the obligation to obtain and maintain various environmental permits. If we were to fail to comply with these requirements or fail to obtain or maintain a required permit, we could be subject to penalties and be required to undertake corrective action measures to achieve compliance. In addition, if our noncompliance with such regulations were to result in a release of hazardous materials to the environment, such as soil or groundwater, we could be required to remediate such contamination, which could be costly. Moreover, noncompliance could subject us to private claims for property damage or personal injury based on exposure to hazardous materials or unsafe working conditions. Changes in applicable requirements or stricter interpretation of existing requirements may result in costly compliance requirements or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. 15 As the present or former owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, and, in some instances, international laws, relating to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination on, under, or released from such property and for any damage to natural resources resulting from such contamination. Similarly, a generator of waste can be held responsible for contamination resulting from the treatment or disposal of such waste at any off-site location (such as a landfill), regardless of whether the generator arranged for the treatment or disposal of the waste in compliance with applicable laws. Costs associated with liability for removal or remediation of contamination or damage to natural resources could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the responsible party knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants. In addition, the liability may be joint and several. Moreover, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties, or properties for which we are deemed responsible, may expose us to liability for property damage or personal injury, or materially adversely affect our ability to sell our real property interests or to borrow using the real property as collateral. We cannot be sure that we will not be subject to environmental liabilities in the future as a result of historic or current operations that have resulted or will result in contamination. Failure to maintain and protect our trademarks, trade names and technology may affect our operations and financial performance. The market for many of our products is, in part, dependent upon the goodwill engendered by our trademarks and trade names. Trademark protection is therefore material to a portion of our business. The failure to protect our trademarks and trade names may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose any proprietary rights we have. In addition, it is possible that others will independently develop technology that will compete with our patented or unpatented technology. The development of new technologies by competitors that may compete with our technologies could reduce demand for our products and affect our financial performance. The loss of key leadership could have a material adverse effect on our ability to run our business. We may be adversely affected if we lose members of our senior leadership. We are highly dependent on our senior leadership team as a result of their expertise. During 2010 we added several new members to our senior leadership team, including Clay H. Kiefaber, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and C. Scott Brannan, our Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of key leadership or the inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on us and our business. Some of our stockholders may exert significant influence over us. Currently, two of our stockholders, Mitchell P. Rales and Steven M. Rales, together, and through an entity wholly owned by them, hold approximately 42% of our outstanding common stock. The level of ownership of these stockholders, and the service of Mitchell Rales as chairman of our board of directors, enables them to exert significant influence over all matters involving us, including matters presented to our stockholders for approval, such as election and removal of our directors and change of control transactions. This concentration of ownership and voting power may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price if a change in control is proposed. The interests of these persons may not coincide with the interests of the other holders of our common stock with respect to our operations or strategy. The market price of our common stock may experience a high level of volatility. The market price for our common stock has experienced a high level of volatility and may continue to do so in the future. During the period from our initial public offering (IPO) to December 31, 2010, our common stock traded between $5.33 and $28.35 per share. At any given time, you may not be able to sell your shares at a price that you think is acceptable. The market liquidity for our stock is relatively low. As of December 31, 2010, we had 43,413,553 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock during the period from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010 was approximately 140,000 shares. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. Stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. 16 Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include prohibiting stockholders from taking action by written consent, prohibiting special meetings of stockholders called by stockholders and prohibiting stockholder nominations and approvals without complying with specific advance notice requirements. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which our board of directors could use to effect a rights plan or “poison pill” that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer and may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing an acquisition of our company. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. Although Mitchell Rales and Steven Rales, both individually and in the aggregate, hold more than 15% of our outstanding voting stock, this provision of Delaware law does not apply to them. There may be limitations on our ability to fully utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other U.S. deferred tax assets in future periods. We may not be able to generate sufficient future U.S. taxable income to utilize our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards (NOLs) and/or other net U.S. deferred tax assets. Our net U.S. deferred tax assets, including U.S. NOLs and net of valuation allowances, are $54.8 million as of December 31, 2010. If sufficient future taxable income and/or available tax planning strategies are not available to utilize some or all of these deferred tax assets, additional valuation allowances may be recorded which would negatively affect our results of operations. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” in Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). Such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization. Our total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill. The goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions for businesses acquired declines, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would negatively affect our results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flow. Our defined benefit pension plan obligations are affected by changes in market interest rates and the majority of plan assets are invested in publicly traded debt and equity securities, which are affected by market risks. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses or lack of expected investment gains on plan assets may adversely impact our future operating results, financial condition and cash flow. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 17 