Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our plant-based technology platform has not previously been used by others to successfully develop products, and if we are not able to establish licenses of the platform, we may not generate sufficient license revenues to fulfill our business plan. If we are unable to convince others to adopt the use of the platform in addition to or instead of other methods to produce vaccines and therapeutic proteins, the Company will not generate the revenues presently contemplated by its business plan to support its continuing operations. Our product candidates are in the preclinical stage of development, and if we or our licensees are not able to successfully develop and commercialize them, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue our business operations. We have five internal product candidates and two additional categories--biodefense and developing world--made through the application of our technology platform, none of which has entered human clinical trials and for none of which an investigational new drug application (IND) has been filed with the FDA. Our success in establishing licenses to our platform will substantially depend on our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory approvals for our product candidates alone or with other persons. If the studies described above or any further studies fail, if we do not obtain required regulatory approvals, or if we fail to commercialize any of our product candidates alone or with licensees, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to attain profitability or continue our business operations, and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be 15 significantly damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to decline and your holdings of our stock to lose most, if not all, of their value. We will not be able to commercialize our product candidates if our preclinical studies do not produce successful results or our clinical trials do not demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. Preclinical and clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and has an uncertain outcome. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, preclinical testing and the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates, including the following: · Our preclinical or clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, which may require us to conduct additional preclinical testing or clinical trials or to abandon projects that we expect to be promising. For example, we may obtain promising animal data about the immunogenicity of a vaccine candidate and then our human tests may result in no or inadequate immune responses. In addition, we may encounter unexpected safety concerns that would require further testing even if the vaccine candidate produced a very significant immune response in human subjects · Initial clinical results may not be supported by further or more extensive clinical trials. For example, we may obtain data that suggest a desirable immune response from one of our vaccine candidates in a small human study, but then when tests are conducted on larger numbers of people, we may not see the same extent of immune response. If the immune response generated by a vaccine is too low, or occurs in too few treated individuals, then the vaccine will have no commercial value. · Enrollment in our clinical trials may be slower than we currently anticipate, resulting in significant delays. The cost of conducting a clinical trial increases as the time required to enroll adequate numbers of human subjects to obtain meaningful results increases. Enrollment in a clinical trial can be a slower-than-anticipated process because of competition from other clinical trials, because the study is not of interest to qualified subjects, or because the stringency of requirements for enrollment limits the number of people who are eligible to participate in the clinical trial. · We might have to suspend or terminate our clinical trials if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks. Animal tests do not always adequately predict potential safety risks to human subjects. We will not know the risk of any candidate product until it is tested in human subjects, and if subjects experience adverse events during the clinical trial, the trial may have to be suspended and modified or terminated entirely. · Regulators or institutional review boards may suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements. · Any regulatory approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the product not commercially viable. · The effects of our product candidates may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects. If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of our product candidates beyond those that we currently contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, or if the results of these trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive, we may be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates, we may not be able to obtain marketing approval or we may obtain approval for indications that are not as broad as intended. Our product development costs will also increase if we experience delays in testing or approvals. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, if at all. Significant clinical trial delays could allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to commercialize our products or 16 product candidates. Poor clinical trial results or delays may make it impossible to license a product or so reduce its attractiveness to a licensing partner that we will be unable to successfully commercialize a product. We will need substantial additional funding to shepherd our product candidates through the clinical testing process and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as the scope of the clinical trials that we are conducting expands. In addition, subject to regulatory approval of any of our product candidates, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses for product sales, marketing, manufacturing and distribution. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed or may be unable to raise capital on attractive terms, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. We believe that our existing cash resources, along with our $5.0 million private placement of common stock that closed in August 2008, as described herein, and support from FhCMB collaborators, will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements only through the second calendar quarter of 2010. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including: · the scope and results of our clinical trials; · our ability to advance additional product candidates into development; · the success of our anticipated commercial agreements with pharmaceutical Companies; · our ability to establish and maintain additional development agreements or other alternative arrangements; · the timing of, and the costs involved in, obtaining regulatory approvals; · the cost of manufacturing activities; · the cost of commercialization activities, including product marketing, sales and distribution; · the costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other patent-related costs, including, if necessary, litigation costs and the results of such litigation; and · potential acquisition or in-licensing of other products or technologies. We estimate we would need to raise additional funds of approximately $35 million over the next three years to operate our business and independently fund a Phase 3 clinical trial of one of our product candidates. Our funding needs would likewise increase as we move additional product candidates through the clinical trial process. If we are unsuccessful in raising additional capital or other alternative financing, we might have to defer or abandon our efforts to commercialize the intellectual property obtained from FhCMB and cease operations. Our product development and commercialization involve a number of uncertainties, and we may never generate sufficient revenues from the sale of potential products to become profitable; therefore, we may raise funds which may be dilutive of our shareholders in the future. We have generated no significant revenues to date. To generate revenue and to achieve profitability, we must successfully develop licenses for our platform and/or clinically test, market and sell our potential products. Even if we generate revenue and successfully achieve profitability, we cannot predict the level of that profitability or whether it will be sustainable. We expect that our operating results will fluctuate from period to period as a result of 17 differences in when we incur expenses and receive revenues from sales of our potential products, business arrangements and other sources. Some of these fluctuations may be significant. Until we can generate a sufficient amount of license and/or product revenue, if ever, we expect to finance future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings and corporate product or technology development agreements and licensing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences that are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through development and licensing arrangements with third parties, it will be necessary to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, research programs or product candidates or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. Even if we or our potential licensees successfully complete clinical trials for our product candidates, there are no assurances that we will be able to submit, or obtain FDA approval of, a new drug application or biologics license application. There can be no assurance that, if clinical trials for any of our product candidates are successfully completed, we will be able to submit a biologics license application (BLA), to the FDA or that any BLA we submit will be approved by the FDA in a timely manner, if at all. After completing clinical trials for a product candidate in humans, a dossier is prepared and submitted to the FDA as a BLA, and includes all preclinical and clinical trial data that clearly establish both short-term and long-term safety for a product candidate, and data that establishes the statistically significant efficacy of a product candidate, in order to allow the FDA to review such dossier and to consider a product candidate for approval for commercialization in the United States. If we are unable to submit a BLA with respect to any of our product candidates, or if any BLA we submit is not approved by the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize that product. The FDA can and does reject BLAs and requires additional clinical trials, even when product candidates perform well or achieve favorable results in large-scale Phase 3 clinical trials. If we fail to commercialize any of our product candidates, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenues to continue operations or attain profitability and our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be damaged, each of which would cause our stock price to significantly decrease. If commercialized, our product candidates may not be approved for sufficient governmental or third-party reimbursements, which would adversely affect our ability to market our product candidates. In the United States and elsewhere, sales of pharmaceutical products depend in significant part on the availability of reimbursement to the consumer from third-party payers, such as government and private insurance plans. Since we currently have no commercial products, we have not had to face this issue yet; however, third-party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. It will be time consuming and expensive for us to go through the process of seeking reimbursement from Medicaid, Medicare and private payers for any of our product candidates. Our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a competitive and profitable basis. The passage of the Medicare Prescription Drug and Modernization Act of 2003 imposes new requirements for the distribution and pricing of prescription drugs which may negatively affect the marketing of our potential products. 18 We face competition from many different sources, including pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions, and such competition may adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from our products. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. For example, large pharmaceutical companies are in the influenza vaccine business. Five injectable influenza vaccines are approved for use in the U.S. These include Afluria made by CSL Limited, Fluzone made by Sanofi-Pasteur, Fluarix made by GlaxoSmithKline, Flulaval made by ID Biomedical and distributed by GlaxoSmithKline, and Fluvirin made by Novartis. In addition, a nasally-administered influenza vaccine called FluMist is made by MedImmune. If we are successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our influenza vaccine candidate, these large companies would be our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through business arrangements with large and established companies that may reduce the potential demand for access to our platform. For example, Novavax is conducting human clinical trials of vaccines for influenza and other infectious diseases using cell culture processes for manufacturing, and Medicago has announced preclinical experiments to produce influenza vaccines in green plants. There are currently approved therapies for the diseases and conditions addressed by our vaccine and antibody candidates that are undergoing clinical trials and for the diseases and conditions that are subjects of our preclinical development program. Our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. For example, the drugs oseltamivir, amantadine, and zanamivir are used to treat certain influenza infections, and Merck’s vaccine to prevent HPV infection has been approved by the FDA with a similar vaccine developed by GlaxoSmithKline in late-stage development. There are also a number of companies working to develop new drugs and other therapies for diseases of commercial interest to us that are undergoing various stages of testing including clinical trials. The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our product candidates are likely to be their efficacy, safety profile, price and convenience. Finally, these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We will depend significantly on arrangements with third parties to develop and commercialize our product candidates. A key element of our business strategy and our thinly-staffed employment structure is to establish arrangements with licensees, particularly leading pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, to develop and commercialize product candidates. We and FhCMB currently are working within our business structure, which includes non-commercial arrangements as described above, to apply further our plant-based platform technology. Delays, withdrawals or other adverse changes to the current participants in our business structure might adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates. We expect to rely upon our future business arrangements for support in advancing certain of our drug candidates and intend to rely on additional work under current and future arrangements during our efforts to commercialize our product candidates. Our contractors may be conducting multiple product development efforts within the same disease areas that are the subjects of their agreements with us. Our agreements might not preclude them from pursuing development efforts using a different approach from that which is the subject of our agreement with them. Any of our drug candidates, therefore, may be subject to competition with a drug candidate under development by a contractor. The success of our business arrangements will depend heavily on the efforts and activities of the organizations which are party to these arrangements. Our future contractual arrangements may provide significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources available to these programs. The risks that we face in connection with these arrangements, and that we anticipate being subject to in future arrangements, include the following: 19 · Future agreements may be for fixed terms and subject to termination under various circumstances, including, in some cases, on short notice without cause. · Our future licensees may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, products and services that are similar to or competitive with the products that are the subject of the agreement with us. · Our future licensees may underfund or not commit sufficient resources to the testing, marketing, distribution or other development of our products. · Our future licensees may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights, or they may utilize our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential liability. · Our future licensees may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their priorities from time to time, including following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. The ability of our product candidates and products to reach their potential could be limited if our licensees or customers decrease or fail to increase spending relating to such products. Business arrangements with pharmaceutical companies and other third parties often are terminated or allowed to expire by the other party. Such terminations or expirations would adversely affect us financially and could harm our business reputation. We may not be successful in establishing additional arrangements with third parties, which could adversely affect our ability to discover, develop and commercialize products. The Company engaged FhCMB to perform research and development activities to apply our platform technology to create product candidates. We currently do not have other similar agreements with third parties. If we are able to obtain such agreements, however, these arrangements may not be scientifically or commercially successful. If we are unable to reach new agreements with suitable third parties, we may fail to meet our business objectives for the affected product or program. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate companies with which to create additional similar business structures. Moreover, these arrangements are complex to negotiate and time-consuming to document. We may not be successful in our efforts to establish additional alternative arrangements. The terms of any additional arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. Moreover, these arrangements may not be successful. If third parties on whom we will rely for clinical trials do not perform as contractually required or as we expect, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates, and our business may suffer. We do not have the ability to independently conduct the clinical trials required to obtain regulatory approval for our products. We have not yet contracted with any third parties to conduct our clinical trials. We will depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers to conduct the clinical trials of our product candidates and expect to continue to do so. We will rely heavily on these parties for successful execution of our clinical trials but will not control many aspects of their activities. For example, the investigators may not be our employees. However, we will be responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the trial. Third parties may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols. The failure of these third parties to carry out their obligations could delay or prevent the development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We face substantial uncertainty in our ability to protect our patents and proprietary technology. Our ability to commercialize our products will depend, in part, on our or our licensors’ ability to obtain patents, to enforce those patents and preserve trade secrets, and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. 20 The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. To date, we have 22 U.S. applications pending and 34 applications pending in Europe, Canada, Australia, China, India, Brazil, Japan, Hong Kong and New Zealand for the intellectual property developed by FhCMB. There can be no assurance that: · patent applications owned by or licensed to us will result in issued patents; · patent protection will be secured for any particular technology; · any patents that have been or may be issued to us will be valid or enforceable; · any patents will provide meaningful protection to us; · others will not be able to design around the patents; or · our patents will provide a competitive advantage or have commercial application. The failure to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection would have a material adverse effect on us and may adversely affect our ability to enter into, or affect the terms of, any arrangement for the marketing of any product. Please see “Description of Our Business – Intellectual Property” for more information. We cannot assure you that our patents will not be challenged by others. There can be no assurance that patents owned by or licensed to us will not be challenged by others. We currently hold one issued U.S. patent for methods of inducing gene silencing in plants and one U.S. patent application for which we have received a notice of allowance, describing systems for expression of vaccine antigens in plants. Please see “Description of Our Business – Intellectual Property” for more information on our current patents and patent applications. We could incur substantial costs in proceedings, including interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office and comparable proceedings before similar agencies in other countries in connection with any claims that may arise in the future. These proceedings could result in adverse decisions about the patentability of our or our licensors’ inventions and products, as well as about the enforceability, validity or scope of protection afforded by the patents. Any adverse decisions about the patentability of our product candidates could cause us to either lose rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates or to license such rights at substantial cost to us. In addition, even if we were successful in such proceedings, the cost and delay of such proceedings would most likely have a material adverse effect on our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information, may not adequately protect our intellectual property, and will not prevent third parties from independently discovering technology similar to or in competition with our intellectual property. We rely on trade secrets and other unpatented proprietary information in our product development activities. To the extent we rely on trade secrets and unpatented know-how to maintain our competitive technological position, there can be no assurance that others may not independently develop the same or similar technologies. We seek to protect trade secrets and proprietary knowledge, in part, through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors, collaborators and contractors. Nevertheless, these agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our confidential information and may not provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. If our employees, scientific consultants, advisors, collaborators or contractors develop inventions or processes independently that may be applicable to our technologies, product candidates or products, disputes may arise about ownership of proprietary rights to those inventions and processes. Such inventions and processes will not necessarily become our property, but may remain the property of those persons or their employers. Protracted and costly litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain or maintain trade secret protection for any reason, the competition we face could increase, reducing our potential revenues and adversely affecting our ability to attain or maintain profitability. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, it will adversely affect our business. 21 Our research, development and commercialization activities, as well as any products candidates or products resulting from these activities, may infringe or be claimed to infringe patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us or our customers, collaborators or licensees that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a patent infringement suit were brought against us or our collaborators, we or they could be forced to stop or delay research, development, manufacturing or sales of the product or product candidate that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we or our customers, collaborators or licensees may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and would most likely be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we or our customers, collaborators or licensees were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we or our customers, collaborators or licensees are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could harm our business significantly. There have been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with and Spin-Off from Integrated BioPharma Our business could suffer if our systems and infrastructure are inadequate or we cannot replace the other benefits previously provided by Integrated BioPharma. Since our inception, we have relied on Integrated BioPharma for various services which we have only recently developed for ourselves, including: · legal; · treasury; · tax; · employee benefits; · insurance; · investor relations; and · executive oversight and other services As of August 18, 2008, following the distribution, we are operating as a separate publicly traded company. We have developed and implemented systems and infrastructure to support our current and future business, and our responsibilities as a public company. These systems and infrastructure may be inadequate, however, and we may be required to develop or otherwise acquire other systems and infrastructure, or to obtain certain corporate services from Integrated BioPharma to support our current and future business such as legal, strategic financial planning, tax and 22 SEC reporting services. For further detail, please see “Relationship Between Our Company and Integrated BioPharma, Inc. – Agreements Between Us and Integrated BioPharma.” As of August 18, 2008, subsequent to the distribution from Integrated BioPharma, we are not able to obtain financing from Integrated BioPharma. Our plans to expand our business and to continue to improve our products may require funds in excess of our cash flow and will require us to seek financing from third parties. In the past, Integrated BioPharma has provided capital for our general corporate purposes, and we used cash provided by Integrated BioPharma to fund our operations. As of August 18, 2008, subsequent to the distribution, however, Integrated BioPharma is not providing funds to finance our operations. Without the opportunity to obtain financing from Integrated BioPharma, we will need to obtain additional financing from banks, or through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We cannot give assurances at this time that we will be able to obtain such funding. In addition, the terms, interest rates, costs and fees of new credit facilities may not be as favorable as those historically enjoyed with Integrated BioPharma. For example, Integrated BioPharma did not charge us with any fees or costs for the intercompany borrowing, nor were there any covenants regarding financial ratios or prohibition on certain transactions in the loan arrangement with Integrated BioPharma. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could restrict our operations and reduce our profitability. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” There is a substantial risk of product liability claims in our business. If we are unable to obtain sufficient insurance, a product liability claim against us could adversely affect our business. Clinical trial and product liability insurance is volatile and may become increasingly expensive. As a result, we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance or increase our existing coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products or product candidates causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: · liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; · an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; · withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers or patients; · damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales of any future commercialized product which we may have; · regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; · litigation costs; · the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. Our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage at an acceptable cost could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. If third parties were to bring a successful product liability claim or series of claims against us for uninsured liabilities or in excess of insured liability limits, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. The agreements we entered into with Integrated BioPharma in connection with the distribution could restrict our operations. In connection with the distribution, we and Integrated BioPharma entered into a number of agreements that govern our spin-off from Integrated BioPharma and our future relationship. Each of these agreements were entered into in the context of our relationship to Integrated BioPharma as a subsidiary and our spin-off from Integrated BioPharma 23 and, accordingly, the terms and provisions of these agreements may be less favorable to us than terms and provisions we could have obtained in arm’s-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. These agreements commit us to take actions, observe commitments and accept terms and conditions that are or may be advantageous to Integrated BioPharma but are or may be disadvantageous to us. The terms of these agreements include obligations and restrictive provisions, including, but not limited to: · an agreement to indemnify Integrated BioPharma, its affiliates, and each of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives from certain liabilities arising out of any litigation we are involved in and all liabilities that arise from our breach of, or performance under, the agreements we are entering into with Integrated BioPharma in connection with the distribution and for any of our liabilities; and · an agreement with regard to tax matters between ourselves and Integrated BioPharma which restricts our ability to engage in certain strategic or capital raising transactions. Our future results may vary significantly in the future which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. It is possible that our quarterly revenues and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful indicators of the future. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of our future performance. It is also possible that in some future quarters, our revenues and operating results will fall below our expectations or the expectations of market analysts and investors. If we do not meet these expectations, the price of our common stock may decline significantly. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 