Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our Common stock involves a high degree of risk, including significant risk related to the Charter Acquisition. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but may not be the only risks to which Colfax might be exposed. Additional risks and uncertainties, which are currently unknown to us or that we do not currently consider to be material, may materially affect the business of Colfax and could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the following risks were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our Common stock could decline and investors could lose all or part of the value of their investment in Colfax shares. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as overall U.S. and non-U.S. economic and industry conditions, a global economic slowdown, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, international conflicts, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected economic or business conditions. We operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risk factors emerge from time to time which we cannot predict. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in the general economy and the cyclical nature of markets could harm operations and financial performance. Colfax's financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets we serve and on the general condition of the global economy. Any sustained weakness in demand, downturn or uncertainty in the global economy could reduce our sales and profitability, and result in restructuring efforts. Restructuring efforts are inherently risky and we may not be able to predict the cost and timing of such actions accurately or properly estimate the impact on demand, if any. We also may not be able to realize the anticipated savings we expected from restructuring activities. In addition, our products are sold in many industries, some of which are cyclical and may experience periodic downturns. Cyclical weakness in the industries that we serve could lead to reduced demand for our products and affect our profitability and financial performance. In 2011, the effects of the global economic slowdown continued to recede in some markets but we still see sluggish demand and less than robust growth in certain areas, particularly Europe. We believe that many of our customers and suppliers are reliant on liquidity from global credit markets and, in some cases, require external financing to purchase products or finance operations. Lack of liquidity or inability to access the credit markets by our customers could impact our ability to collect amounts owed to us. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Acquisitions have formed a significant part of our growth strategy in the past and are expected to continue to do so. If we are unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate the businesses we acquire, especially Charter, or realize the intended benefits, our growth strategy may not succeed. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks related to integration and undisclosed or underestimated liabilities. Historically, our business strategy has relied on acquisitions. We expect to derive a significant portion of our growth by acquiring businesses and integrating those businesses into our existing operations. We intend to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance our position in our existing markets. However, our ability to do so will depend on a number of steps, including our ability to: • identify suitable acquisition candidates; • negotiate appropriate acquisition terms; • obtain debt or equity financing that we may need to complete proposed acquisitions; • complete the proposed acquisitions; and • integrate the acquired business into our existing operations. If we fail to achieve any of these steps, our growth strategy may not be successful. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired company, the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company and the diversion of our management's attention from other business concerns. This is the case particularly in the fiscal quarters immediately following the completion of an acquisition because the operations of the acquired business are integrated into the acquiring businesses' operations during this period. We cannot be sure that we will accurately anticipate all of the changing demands that any future acquisition may impose on our management, our operational and management information systems and our financial systems. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may underestimate or fail to discover liabilities relating to a future acquisition during the due diligence investigation and we, as the successor owner, might be responsible for those liabilities. For example, two of our acquired subsidiaries are each one of many defendants in a large number of lawsuits that claim personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos from products manufactured with components that are alleged to have contained asbestos. Although our due diligence investigations in connection with these acquisitions uncovered the existence of potential asbestos-related liabilities, the scope of such liabilities were greater than we had originally estimated. Although we seek to minimize the impact of underestimated or potential undiscovered liabilities by structuring acquisitions to minimize liabilities and obtaining indemnities and warranties from the selling party, these methods may not fully protect us from the impact of undiscovered liabilities. Indemnities or warranties are often limited in scope, amount or duration, and may not fully cover the liabilities for which they were intended. The liabilities that are not covered by the limited indemnities or warranties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may require additional capital to finance our operating needs and to finance our growth. If the terms on which the additional capital is available are unsatisfactory, if the additional capital is not available at all or we are not able to fully access credit under the Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement, we may not be able to pursue our growth strategy. Our growth strategy will require additional capital investment to complete acquisitions, integrate the completed acquisitions into our existing operations, and to expand into new markets. 11 We intend to pay for future acquisitions using cash, capital stock, notes, assumption of indebtedness or any combination of the foregoing. To the extent that we do not generate sufficient cash internally to provide the capital we require to fund our growth strategy and future operations, we will require additional debt or equity financing. We cannot be sure that this additional financing will be available or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. Further, high volatility in the equity markets and in our stock price may make it difficult for us to access the equity markets for additional capital at attractive prices, if at all. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the future, it may limit our ability to implement fully our business strategy. Even if future debt financing is available, it may result in (i) increased interest expense, (ii) increased term loan payments, (iii) increased leverage and (iv) decreased income available to fund further acquisitions and expansion. It may also limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns. If future equity financing is available, issuances of our equity securities may dilute our existing stockholders. In addition, our credit facility agreement includes restrictive covenants which could limit our financial flexibility. See “—The Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement contains restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business.” below. Available insurance coverage, the number of future asbestos-related claims and the average settlement value of current and future asbestos-related claims of two of our subsidiaries could be different than we have estimated, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Two of our subsidiaries are each one of many defendants in a large number of lawsuits that claim personal injury as a result of exposure to asbestos from products manufactured with components that are alleged to have contained asbestos. Such components were acquired from third-party suppliers and were not manufactured by any of our subsidiaries nor were the subsidiaries producers or direct suppliers of asbestos. For the purposes of our financial statements, we have estimated the future claims exposure and the amount of insurance available based upon certain assumptions with respect to future claims and liability costs. We estimate the liability costs to be incurred in resolving pending and forecasted claims for the next 15-year period. Our decision to use a 15-year period is based on our belief that this is the extent of our ability to forecast liability costs. We also estimate the amount of insurance proceeds available for such claims based on the current financial strength of the various insurers, our estimate of the likelihood of payment and applicable current law. We reevaluate these estimates regularly. Although we believe our current estimates are reasonable, a change in the time period used for forecasting our liability costs, the actual number of future claims brought against us, the cost of resolving these claims, the likelihood of payment by, and the solvency of, insurers and the amount of remaining insurance available could be substantially different than our estimates, and future revaluation of our liabilities and insurance recoverables could result in material adjustments to these estimates, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we incur defense costs related to those claims, a portion of which has historically been reimbursed by our insurers. We also incur litigation costs in connection with actions against certain of the subsidiaries' insurers relating to insurance coverage. While these costs may be significant, we may not be able to predict the amount or duration of such costs. Additionally, we may experience delays in receiving reimbursement from insurers, during which time we may be required to pay cash for settlement or legal defense costs. Any increase in the actual number of future claims brought against us, the defense costs of resolving these claims, the cost of pursuing claims against our insurers, the likelihood and timing of payment by, and the solvency of, insurers and the amount of remaining insurance available, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, another of our subsidiaries acquired in connection with the Charter Acquisition has also been named as a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in the U.S. See “—Certain of our newly acquired subsidiaries’ products may be subject to certain liability claims.” below. 12 A material disruption at any of our manufacturing facilities could adversely affect our ability to generate sales and meet customer demand. If operations at our manufacturing facilities were to be disrupted as a result of significant equipment failures, natural disasters, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes or other reasons, our financial performance could be adversely affected as a result of our inability to meet customer demand for our products. Interruptions in production could increase our costs and reduce our sales. Any interruption in production capability could require us to make substantial capital expenditures to remedy the situation, which could negatively affect our profitability and financial condition. We maintain property damage insurance which we believe to be adequate to provide for reconstruction of facilities and equipment, as well as business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from any production interruption or shutdown caused by an insured loss. However, any recovery under our insurance policies may not offset the lost sales or increased costs that may be experienced during the disruption of operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to the laws and regulations of the U.S. and many foreign countries. Failure to comply with these laws may affect our ability to conduct business in certain countries and may affect our financial performance. We are subject to a variety of laws regarding our international operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and regulations issued by U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Bureau of Industry and Security, and the regulations of various foreign governmental agencies. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international sales and manufacturing operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted. Future regulations could limit the countries in which some of our products may be manufactured or sold, or could restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, products from foreign sources. In addition, actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in enforcement actions and financial penalties that could result in substantial costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have done and may continue to do business in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargoes, and we may have limited managerial oversight over those activities. Failure to comply with these sanctions and embargoes may result in enforcement or other regulatory actions. From time to time, certain of our foreign subsidiaries sell products to companies and entities located in, or controlled by the governments of, certain countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and/or the United Nations, such as Syria. In March 2010, our Board of Directors affirmatively prohibited any sales to Iran by us and all of our foreign subsidiaries. With the exception of the U.S. sanctions against Cuba, the applicable sanctions and embargoes generally do not prohibit our foreign subsidiaries from selling non-U.S.-origin products and services to countries that are or have previously been subject to sanctions and embargoes from selling non-US-origin products and services in those countries. However, our U.S. personnel, each of our domestic subsidiaries, as well as our employees of foreign subsidiaries who are U.S. citizens, are prohibited from participating in, approving or otherwise facilitating any aspect of the business activities in those countries. These constraints may negatively affect the financial or operating performance of such business activities. We cannot be certain that our attempts to comply with U.S. sanction laws and embargoes will be effective, and as a consequence we may face enforcement or other actions if our compliance efforts are not effective. Actual or alleged violations of these laws could result in substantial fines or other sanctions which could result in substantial costs. In addition, Syria and certain other sanctioned countries currently are identified by the U.S. State Department as a state sponsor of terrorism, and may be subject to increasingly restrictive sanctions. Because certain of our foreign subsidiaries have contact with and transact business in such countries, including sales to enterprises controlled by agencies of the governments of such countries, our reputation may suffer due to our association with these countries, which may have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. In addition, certain U.S. states and municipalities have recently enacted legislation regarding investments by pension funds and other retirement systems in companies that have business activities or contacts with countries that have been identified as state sponsors of terrorism and similar legislation may be pending in other states. As a result, pension funds and other retirement systems may be subject to reporting requirements with respect to investments in companies such as Colfax or may be subject to limits or prohibitions with respect to those investments that may have a material adverse effect on the price of our shares. 13 In addition, one of our foreign subsidiaries made a small number of sales from 2003 through 2007 totaling approximately $60,000 in the aggregate to two customers in Cuba which may have been made in violation of regulations of the U.S. Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC. Cuba is also identified by the U.S. State Department as a state sponsor of terrorism. We have submitted a disclosure report to OFAC regarding these transactions. As a result of these sales, we may be subject to fines or other sanctions. If we fail to comply with export control regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or other sanctions. Some of our products manufactured or assembled in the United States are subject to the U.S. Export Administration Regulations, administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security, which require that an export license is obtained before such products can be exported to certain countries. Additionally, some of our products are subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, which restrict the export of certain military or intelligence-related items, technologies and services to non-U.S. persons. Failure to comply with these laws could harm our business by subjecting us to sanctions by the U.S. government, including substantial monetary penalties, denial of export privileges and debarment from U.S. government contracts. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The majority of our sales are derived from international operations. We are subject to specific risks associated with international operations. In the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived approximately 70% of our sales from operations outside of the U.S. and we have principal manufacturing facilities in 23 countries. Sales from international operations, export sales and the use of manufacturing facilities outside of the U.S. by us are subject to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include: •economic or political instability; •partial or total expropriation of international assets; •trade protection measures, including tariffs or import-export restrictions; •currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; •significant adverse changes in taxation policies or other laws or regulations; and •the disruption of operations from political disturbances, terrorist activities, insurrection or war. If any of these risks were to materialize, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 44% of our fluid-handling employees are represented by foreign trade unions. Charter also has employees that are represented by trade unions. If the representation committees responsible for negotiating with these unions on our behalf are unsuccessful in negotiating new and acceptable agreements when the existing agreements with employees covered by the unions expire or if the foreign trade unions chose not to support our restructuring programs, we could experience business disruptions or increased costs. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 1,500 employees in foreign locations. In certain countries, labor and employment laws are more restrictive than in the U.S. and, in many cases, grant significant job protection to employees, including rights on termination of employment. In Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, by law, some of our employees are represented by trade unions in these jurisdictions, which subject us to employment arrangements very similar to collective bargaining agreements. ESAB and Howden also have employees that are represented by trade unions. If our employees represented by foreign trade unions were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown in the future, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations. Such disruption could interfere with our business operations and could lead to decreased productivity, increased labor costs and lost revenue. Although we have not experienced any material recent strikes or work stoppages, we cannot offer any assurance that the representation committees that negotiate with the foreign trade unions on our behalf will be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements or other employment arrangements when the current ones expire. Furthermore, future labor negotiations could result in significant increases in our labor costs. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Our manufacturing business is subject to the possibility of product liability lawsuits, which could harm our business. In addition to the asbestos-related liability claims described above, as the manufacturer of equipment for use in industrial markets, we face an inherent risk of exposure to other product liability claims. Although we maintain quality controls and procedures, we cannot be sure that our products will be free from defects. In addition, some of our products contain components manufactured by third parties, which may also have defects. We maintain insurance coverage for product liability claims. The insurance policies have limits, however, that may not be sufficient to cover claims made. In addition, this insurance may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost. With respect to components manufactured by third-party suppliers, the contractual indemnification that we seek from our third-party suppliers may be limited and thus insufficient to cover claims made against us. If insurance coverage or contractual indemnification is insufficient to satisfy product liability claims made against us the claims could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Even claims without merit could harm our reputation, reduce demand for our products, cause us to incur substantial legal costs and distract the attention of our management. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As manufacturers, we are subject to a variety of environmental and health and safety laws for which compliance, or liabilities that arise as a result of noncompliance, could be costly. Our businesses are subject to international, federal, state and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions of: regulated air pollutants; discharges of wastewater and storm water; storage and handling of raw materials; generation, storage, transportation and disposal of regulated wastes; and worker safety. These requirements impose on our businesses certain responsibilities, including the obligation to obtain and maintain various environmental permits. If we were to fail to comply with these requirements or fail to obtain or maintain a required permit, we could be subject to penalties and be required to undertake corrective action measures to achieve compliance. In addition, if our noncompliance with such regulations were to result in a release of hazardous materials to the environment, such as soil or groundwater, we could be required to remediate such contamination, which could be costly. Moreover, noncompliance could subject us to private claims for property damage or personal injury based on exposure to hazardous materials or unsafe working conditions. Changes in applicable requirements or stricter interpretation of existing requirements may result in costly compliance requirements or otherwise subject us to future liabilities. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the present or former owner or operator of real property, or generator of waste, we could become subject to liability for environmental contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination. Under various federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances, and, in some instances, international laws, relating to the protection of the environment, a current or former owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate contamination on, under, or released from such property and for any damage to natural resources resulting from such contamination. Similarly, a generator of waste can be held responsible for contamination resulting from the treatment or disposal of such waste at any off-site location (such as a landfill), regardless of whether the generator arranged for the treatment or disposal of the waste in compliance with applicable laws. Costs associated with liability for removal or remediation of contamination or damage to natural resources could be substantial and liability under these laws may attach without regard to whether the responsible party knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the contaminants. In addition, the liability may be joint and several. Moreover, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination at our properties, or properties for which we are deemed responsible, may expose us to liability for property damage or personal injury, or materially adversely affect our ability to sell our real property interests or to borrow using the real property as collateral. We cannot be sure that we will not be subject to environmental liabilities in the future as a result of historic or current operations that have resulted or will result in contamination. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Failure to maintain and protect our trademarks, trade names and technology may affect our operations and financial performance. The market for many of our products is, in part, dependent upon the goodwill engendered by our trademarks and trade names. Trademark protection is therefore material to a portion of our businesses. The failure to protect our trademarks and trade names may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may be required to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others. Any action we take to protect our intellectual property rights could be costly and could absorb significant management time and attention. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose any proprietary rights we have. In addition, it is possible that others will independently develop technology that will compete with our patented or unpatented technology. The development of new technologies by competitors that may compete with our technologies could reduce demand for our products and affect our financial performance. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key leadership could have a material adverse effect on ability to run our business. We may be adversely affected if we lose members of our senior leadership. We are highly dependent on our senior leadership team as a result of their expertise. The loss of key leadership or the inability to attract, retain and motivate sufficient numbers of qualified management personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement contains restrictions that may limit our flexibility in operating our business. The credit agreement with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and certain other lender parties named therein (the “Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement”) contains various covenants that will limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants would limit our ability to, among other things: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends on, repurchase or make distributions in respect of, the capital stock of Colfax and its wholly-owned subsidiaries; •make certain investments; •create liens on certain assets to secure debt; •consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all our assets; and •enter into certain transactions with affiliates. 16 In addition, under the Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain compliance with a total leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio. The Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement's various covenants and the additional leverage taken on by us could increase our vulnerability to general economic slowdowns which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any impairment in the value of our intangible assets, including Goodwill, would negatively affect our operating results and total capitalization. Our Total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily Goodwill. The Goodwill results from our acquisitions, representing the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets we have acquired. We assess at least annually whether there has been impairment in the value of our intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of our business units were to fall significantly below current levels, if competing or alternative technologies emerge, or if market conditions for businesses acquired declines, we could incur, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating earnings for Goodwill impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of unamortized intangible assets would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and total capitalization, the effect of which could be material. Our defined benefit pension schemes and post-retirement medical and death benefit plans are or may become subject to funding requirements or obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate defined benefit pension schemes and post retirement medical and death benefit plans for our current and former employees worldwide, including the pension schemes of Howden and ESAB. Each scheme's funding position is affected by the investment performance of the scheme's investments, changes in the fair value of the scheme's assets, the type of investments selected by the trustees, the life expectancy of the scheme's members, changes in the actuarial assumptions used to value the scheme's liabilities, changes in the rate of inflation and interest rates, our financial position, as well as other changes in economic conditions. Furthermore, since a significant proportion of the schemes' assets are invested in publicly traded debt and equity securities, they are, and will be, affected by market risks. Any detrimental change in any of the above factors is likely to worsen the funding position of each of the relevant schemes, and this is likely to require the schemes' sponsoring employers to increase the contributions currently made to the schemes to satisfy our obligations. Any requirement to increase the level of contributions currently made could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significant movements in foreign currency exchange rates may harm our financial results. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. During the year ended December 31, 2011, approximately 70% of our sales were derived from operations outside the U.S. A significant portion of our revenues and income are denominated in foreign currencies. Consequently, depreciation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar has had a negative impact on the income from operations of our European operations. Large fluctuations in the rate of exchange between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we do not engage to a material extent in hedging activities intended to offset the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the U.S. dollar could affect our ability to sell products competitively and control our cost structure, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the availability of raw materials, as well as parts and components used in our products. While we manufacture many of the parts and components used in our products, we require substantial amounts of raw materials and purchase parts and components from suppliers. The availability and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers' allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any significant change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, delays in delivery of components or raw materials by suppliers could cause delays in our delivery of products to our customers. 17 We may be subject to risks arising from changes in technology. The supply chains in which we operate are subject to technological changes and changes in customer requirements. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully develop new or modified types of products or technologies that may be required by our customers in the future. Should we not be able to maintain or enhance the competitive values of our products or develop and introduce new products or technologies successfully, or if new products or technologies fail to generate sufficient revenues to offset research and development costs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially or adversely affected. The markets we serve are highly competitive and some of our competitors may have superior resources. Responding to this competition could reduce our sales and operating margins. We sell most of our products in highly fragmented and competitive markets. We believe that the principal elements of competition in our markets are: •the ability to meet customer specifications; •application expertise and design and engineering capabilities; •product quality and brand name; •timeliness of delivery; •price; and •quality of aftermarket sales and support. In order to maintain and enhance our competitive position, we intend to continue investing in manufacturing quality, marketing, customer service and support and distribution networks. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make these investments and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position. Our competitors may develop products that are superior to our products, develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services, or adapt more quickly than us to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing and research and development resources than we have. As a result, those competitors may be better able to withstand the effects of periodic economic downturns. In addition, pricing pressures could cause us to lower the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully with our existing competitors or with new competitors. If we fail to compete successfully, the failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional Risks and Other Considerations Related to the Charter Acquisition Certain of our newly acquired subsidiaries’ products may be subject to certain liability claims. Certain subsidiaries acquired in conjunction with the Charter Acquisition have, since approximately 1985, been named as defendants in asbestos-related actions in the United States alleging liability in connection with the acts of a former partially owned subsidiary. Currently, the only pending cases are dormant and are not actively being pursued by the plaintiffs. 18 One subsidiary acquired in connection with the Charter Acquisition has also been named as a defendant in a number of asbestos-related actions in the United States. Over the past few years, this subsidiary has sought and received dismissal from over 11,900 cases and settled 517 for nuisance value amounts, much less than the cost of defending the actions at trial. Another subsidiary acquired in connection with the Charter Acquisition is currently named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits in state and federal courts alleging personal injuries from exposure to manganese in fumes generated by welding consumables. In each instance, this subsidiary is one of several defendants, including other current and former manufacturers of welding consumables. The claimants allege that exposure to manganese contained welding consumables caused the plaintiffs to develop adverse neurological conditions, including a condition known as manganism. This subsidiary is currently a co-defendant in manganese cases involving approximately 834 claimants. This subsidiary has been a co-defendant in numerous other manganese cases that have been resolved as follows: 15,563 claims have been dismissed; 13 claims were tried to a defense verdict; four claims were decided in favor of this subsidiary following summary judgment motion; six claims were resolved by agreement for immaterial amounts; and four claims were tried to plaintiff verdicts – one was reversed and judgment was entered for the welding defendants, one was reversed and remanded for a new trial, one was reversed on the award of damages only and remanded for a new trial on damages and one is on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. We intend to continue vigorous defense of these claims, although the outcome is of course uncertain. If any such claims were successful or the relevant plaintiff's sought to continue such claims, they may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and operating synergies expected from the Charter Acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of the Charter Acquisition will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow our revenue and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and operating synergies from the combination. We believe that the addition of Charter will complement our stated strategy by adding complementary growth platforms and providing scale and revenue diversity, accelerate our growth strategy and enable us to become a multi-platform business with a strong global footprint. Achieving these goals requires revenue growth and realization of the targeted operating synergies expected from the Charter Acquisition. This growth and the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than we expect. Actual operating, technological, strategic and sales synergies, if achieved at all, may be less significant than we expect or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the Charter Acquisition within a reasonable time, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Charter Acquisition will result in significant integration costs and any material delays or unanticipated additional expense may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The complexity and magnitude of the integration effort associated with the Charter Acquisition are significant and require that we fund significant capital and operating expense to support the integration of the combined operations. Such expenses have included significant transaction, consulting and third party service fees. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred a total of $31.1 million of professional service fees and other expenses related to the Charter Acquisition and we anticipate that we will incur an additional $40.0 million of transaction costs during 2012. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional operating expense as we build up internal resources or engage third party providers during integration. In addition to these transition costs, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur increased expense relating to, among other things, restructuring. Any material delays, difficulties or unanticipated additional expense associated with integration activities may harm our business, financial conditions and results of operations. 19 We may not be able to integrate Charter successfully. The Charter Acquisition involves the integration of two businesses that previously operated independently. The integration of the departments, systems, business units, operating procedures and information technologies of the two businesses will present a significant challenge to management. There can be no assurance that we will be able to integrate and manage these operations effectively. The failure to successfully integrate the two businesses in a timely manner, or at all, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The difficulties of combining Colfax with Charter include: •the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations; •implementing common systems and controls; •integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; •the challenges in developing new products and services that optimizes the assets and resources of the two businesses; •integrating the businesses' technology and products; •combining different corporate cultures; •unanticipated expenses related to integration, including technical and operational integration; •increased fixed costs and unanticipated liabilities that may affect operating results; •retaining key employees; and •retaining and maintaining relationships with existing customers, distributors and other partners. Also, the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in our activities. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the transactions contemplated by an implementation agreement and the integration of the operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Charter Acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Charter Acquisition may expose us to significant unanticipated liabilities of Charter. These liabilities could include employment, retirement or severance-related obligations under applicable law or other benefits arrangements, legal claims, warranty or similar liabilities to customers, and claims by or amounts owed to vendors. We may also incur liabilities or claims associated with our acquisition of Charter's technology and intellectual property including claims of infringement. Particularly in international jurisdictions, our acquisition of Charter, or our decision to independently enter new international markets where Charter previously conducted business, could also expose us to tax liabilities and other amounts owed by Charter. The incurrence of such unforeseen or unanticipated liabilities, should they be significant, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 The complexity of the integration and transition associated with the Charter Acquisition, together with Charter's increased scale and global presence, may affect our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to effectively and timely report our financial results. The additional scale of Charter's operations, together with the complexity of the integration effort, including changes to or implementation of critical information technology systems, may adversely affect our ability to report our financial results on a timely basis. In addition, we will have to train new employees and third party providers, and assume operations in jurisdictions where we have not previously had operations. We expect that the Charter Acquisition may necessitate significant modifications to our internal control systems, processes and information systems, both on a transition basis and over the longer-term as we fully integrate Charter. Due to the complexity of the Charter Acquisition, we cannot be certain that changes to our internal control over financial reporting during the 2012 fiscal year will be effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. If we are unable to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner, or are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business, results of operations and financial condition and the market perception thereof may be materially adversely affected. Risks and Other Considerations Related to our Common Stock The issuances of Common and Preferred stock pursuant to the Charter Acquisition may adversely affect the market price of Colfax Common stock. As a result of the funding of the Charter Acquisition, there are an additional 41,014,762 shares of Colfax Common stock outstanding as well as an additional 12,173,291 shares of Colfax Common stock issuable upon conversion (at the initial conversion price) of the Series A Preferred Stock, which are entitled to participate with respect to any dividends or other distributions paid on Colfax Common stock. The shares of Colfax Common stock issued to Charter shareholders are freely transferable by former Charter shareholders who are not our affiliates. In addition, we are unable to predict the potential effects of the issuance of the securities to BDT CF Acquisition Vehicle, LLC (the “BDT Investor”), Markel Corporation (“Markel”), Mitchell P. Rales and Steven M. Rales on the trading activity and market price of Colfax Common stock. Pursuant to the relevant registration rights agreements, we have granted the BDT Investor, Markel, Mitchell P. Rales and Steven M. Rales and their permitted transferees registration rights for the resale of the shares of Colfax Common stock acquired as a result of the Charter Acquisition and, with respect to the BDT Investor, shares of Colfax Common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock. These registration rights would facilitate the resale of such securities into the public market, and any such resale would increase the number of shares of Colfax Common stock available for public trading. Sales by the BDT Investor, Markel, Mitchell P. Rales or Steven M. Rales or their permitted transferees of a substantial number of shares of Colfax Common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of Colfax Common stock. Also, under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, there are additional authorized shares of Colfax Common stock, which, if subsequently issued, could have a further dilutive effect on outstanding Colfax Common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation contains provisions that grant the BDT Investor certain rights which may limit our flexibility in operating our business. So long as the BDT Investor and its permitted transferees beneficially own, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the BDT Investor under the securities purchase agreement with the BDT Investor (the “BDT Purchase Agreement”), the BDT Investor's written consent is required in order for us to take certain corporate actions, including: •the incurrence of certain indebtedness (excluding certain permitted indebtedness) if the ratio of such indebtedness to EBITDA (as defined in the Deutsche Bank Credit Agreement) exceeds certain specified ratios, measured by reference to the last twelve-month period for which financial information is reported by Colfax (pro forma for acquisitions during such period); 21 •the issuance of any shares of preferred stock; •any change to our dividend policy or the declaration or payment of any dividend or distribution on any of our stock ranking subordinate or junior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distributions (including the Colfax Common stock) under certain circumstances; •any voluntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Colfax; •any change in our independent auditor; •the election of anyone other than Mr. Mitchell P. Rales as Chairman of our Board of Directors; •any acquisition of another entity or assets for a purchase price exceeding 30% of our equity market capitalization; •any merger, consolidation, reclassification, joint venture or strategic partnership or similar transaction, or any disposition of any assets (excluding sale/leaseback transactions and other financing transactions in the ordinary course of business) of Colfax if the value of the resulting entity, level of investment by Colfax or value of the assets disposed, as applicable, exceeds 30% of our equity market capitalization; •any amendments to our organizational or governing documents, including the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Amended and Restated Bylaws; and •any change in the size of our Board of Directors. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides that, so long as the BDT Investor and certain permitted transferees beneficially own at least 10% of the Colfax Common stock (on a fully-diluted basis), the BDT Investor's written consent is required to alter, amend or repeal the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation which sets forth the authorized number of members of our Board and the BDT Investor's nomination rights in respect of members of our Board. The above factors could limit our financial and operational flexibility, and as a result could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The BDT Investor may exercise significant influence over us, including through its ability to elect up to two members of our Board of Directors. The shares of Colfax Common stock and Series A Preferred Stock owned by the BDT Investor represent approximately 28% of the voting rights in respect of the Company's issued share capital. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that the BDT Investor's consent is required before we may take certain actions for so long as the BDT Investor and its permitted transferees beneficially own in the aggregate at least 50% of the Series A Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the BDT Purchase Agreement. As a result, the BDT Investor may have the ability to significantly influence the outcome of any matter submitted for the vote of our stockholders. The BDT Investor may have interests that diverge from, or even conflict with, those of Colfax and our other stockholders. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation also provides that the BDT Investor will have the right to exclusively nominate two out of eleven directors to our Board of Directors so long as the BDT Investor holds at least 20% of the outstanding Colfax Common stock, with one of its nominees to serve on the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and one of its nominees to serve on the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors, and one out of ten directors to our Board of Directors so long as the BDT Investor and its permitted transferees beneficially own in the aggregate less than 20% but more than 10% of the outstanding Colfax Common stock, with such nominee to serve on the audit committee and the compensation committee of our Board of Directors; in each case calculated on a fully diluted basis, assuming conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock at the then-existing conversion price. 22 In addition, following the completion of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreements (as defined and further discussed in Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Borrowing Arrangements), the ownership position of the BDT Investor, Mitchell P. Rales and Steven M. Rales and the governance rights of the BDT Investor could discourage a third party from proposing a change of control or other strategic transaction concerning Colfax. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of Colfax, which could decrease the value of its shares. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions that may make it difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions include prohibiting stockholders from taking action by written consent, prohibiting special meetings of stockholders called by stockholders and prohibiting stockholder nominations and approvals without complying with specific advance notice requirements. In addition, our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which our Board of Directors could use to effect a rights plan or “poison pill” that could dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer and may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing an acquisition of Colfax. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between Colfax and any holder of 15% or more of its outstanding voting stock. Although Mitchell P. Rales and Steven M. Rales, both individually hold more than 15% of our outstanding voting stock, and the BDT Investor will hold more than 25% of our outstanding voting stock, this provision of Delaware law does not apply to them. The market price of Colfax Common stock may experience a high level of volatility. Stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of Colfax Common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 