Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks. Set forth below are certain of the more important risks that we face and that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results. These risks are not the only ones that we face. Our business also could be affected by additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe are immaterial to our business. We have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers. Increases in our costs or decreases in coated or supercalendered paper prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our earnings are sensitive to price changes in coated or supercalendered paper. Fluctuations in paper prices (and coated paper prices in particular) historically have had a direct effect on our net income (loss) and Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, or “EBITDA,” for several reasons: · Market prices for paper products are a function of supply and demand, factors over which we have limited control. We therefore have limited ability to control the pricing of our products. Market prices of grade No. 3, 60 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated freesheet paper pricing, have fluctuated since 2000 from a high of $1,100 per ton to a low of $705 per ton. In addition, market prices of grade No. 5, 34 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated groundwood paper pricing, have fluctuated between a high of $1,120 per ton to a low of $795 per ton over the same period. Our average coated paper prices declined in 2009 and while we expect average prices in 2010 to remain below 2009 levels, the rate of decline in paper prices has slowed and we expect modest price increases in 2010. Because market conditions determine the price for our paper products, the price for our products could fall below our cash production costs. · Market prices for paper products typically are not directly affected by raw material costs or other costs of sales, and consequently we have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers absent increases in the market price. In addition, a significant portion of our sales are pursuant to contracts that limit price increases. Thus, even though our costs may increase, we may not have the ability to increase the prices for our products, or the prices for our products may decline. · The manufacturing of coated paper is highly capital-intensive and a large portion of our operating costs are fixed. Additionally, paper machines are large, complex machines that operate more efficiently when operated continuously. Consequently, both we and our competitors typically continue to run our machines whenever marginal sales exceed the marginal costs, adversely impacting prices at times of lower demand. Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on (1) managing our cost structure, (2) managing changes in raw materials prices, which represent a large component of our operating costs and fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control and (3) general conditions in the paper market. If the prices of our products decline, or if our raw material costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The paper industry is cyclical and North American demand for certain paper products tends to decline during a weak U.S. economy. Fluctuations in supply and demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The paper industry is a commodity market to a significant extent and is subject to cyclical market pressures. North American demand for coated and supercalendered paper products tends to decline during a weak U.S. economy. Accordingly, general economic conditions and demand for magazines and catalogs may have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations can have a significant impact on the supply of coated paper products in North America. If the U.S. dollar strengthens, imports may increase, which would cause the supply of paper products available in the North American market to increase. Foreign overcapacity also could result in an increase in the supply of paper products available in the North American market. An increased supply of paper available in North America could put downward pressure on prices and/or cause us to lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Recent global market and economic conditions have been challenging with tight credit conditions and a slowdown in economic growth in most major economies. While there are some indications the economy and credit markets are improving, economic conditions are expected to remain difficult in 2010. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike which has disproportionately impacted the magazine industry, and a corresponding decrease in demand for our products. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Selected Factors that Affect Our Operating Results.” In addition to the cyclical downturns that our industry regularly experiences and is currently experiencing, demand may suffer from secular declines as the result of changes in general business conditions that impact the use of catalogues and magazines. At times of weakening demand, such as the current economic climate, it is difficult to determine whether reduced demand for our products is the result of cyclical macroeconomic factors or instead the result of structural changes in the marketplace. Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business and consumer spending may further adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under these notes and our other indebtedness. We have been highly leveraged since the consummation of the Acquisition. As of December 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $1,192.4 million, net of $24.0 million of unamortized discounts. The total amount of payments we will need to make on our outstanding long-term indebtedness for each of the next three fiscal years is equal to $116.5 million, $116.5 million, and $115.7 million, respectively (assuming the current prevailing interest rates on our outstanding floating rate indebtedness remain the same). Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and other general corporate purposes; · increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and our second priority senior secured floating rate notes are subject to variable rates of interest; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · limiting our ability to borrow additional funds. 13 We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our senior secured credit facilities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Our operations require substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our required capital expenditures. Our business is capital intensive, and we incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain our equipment and comply with environmental laws, as well as to enhance the efficiency of our operations. Our total capital expenditures were $34 million in 2009, including approximately $20 million for maintenance and environmental capital expenditures. We expect to spend approximately $77 million on capital expenditures during 2010, with approximately $6 million expected to be reimbursed through a Recovery Act grant for the deployment of waste energy recovery technologies. Included in the total for 2010 is approximately $41 million for maintenance and environmental capital expenditures. We anticipate that our available cash resources and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures for at least the next year. We may also dispose of certain of our non-core assets in order to obtain additional liquidity. However, if we require additional funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our facilities and equipment as we require or as necessary to ensure environmental compliance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and make planned capital expenditures. Our ability to generate cash or refinance our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under credit facilities to the extent of available borrowings. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in wholesale and consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations which we are subject to under our indebtedness. Additionally, until December 31, 2009, the United States government provided an excise tax credit to taxpayers for the use of alternative fuel mixtures. As a result of our use of an alternative fuel mixture containing “black liquor,” a byproduct of pulp production, at our Androscoggin and Quinnesec mills, we recognized $238.9 million of alternative fuel mixture tax credits in the year ended December 31, 2009, including approximately $10 million for claims pending at December 31, 2009. The amount recognized in fiscal 2009 includes amounts received for claims for use of the alternative fuel mixture from September 2008 through December 2009. The tax credit, as it relates to liquid fuels derived from biomass, expired on December 31, 2009. Therefore, we will not recognize any proceeds from this tax credit in future periods. Based on our current and expected level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash and available borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next year. We cannot assure you, however, that our business (taking into account the expiration of the tax credit discussed above) will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our senior secured credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may explore additional steps to raise liquidity including potential dispositions of non-core assets. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before the maturity thereof. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be effected on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 14 Restrictive covenants in the indentures governing our notes and our revolving credit agreement may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indentures governing our notes and our revolving credit agreement limit our ability, among other things, to: · incur additional indebtedness; · pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock; · prepay, redeem or repurchase certain of our indebtedness; · make investments; · sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; · enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; · consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; · enter into transactions with our affiliates; and · incur liens. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants could result in a default under the indentures governing our notes and our revolving credit agreement. If a default occurs, the holders of the notes and the lenders under our revolving credit facility may elect to declare all borrowings or notes outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under our revolving credit facility would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness when due or declared due, the lenders under our revolving credit facility and our other secured indebtedness (including our notes) will also have the right to proceed against the collateral, including our available cash, granted to them to secure the indebtedness. If the indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the notes and our other secured indebtedness were to be accelerated, we cannot assure you that our assets would be sufficient to repay in full our secured indebtedness, including the notes, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Lenders under our revolving credit facility may not fund their commitments. Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., or “Lehman,” which filed for bankruptcy in October 2008 is one of the lenders under our revolving credit facility, with a commitment of $15.8 million of the $200 million available under the facility. On October 10, 2008, we requested funding in the amount of $100 million under the revolving credit facility, and Lehman failed to fund $7.9 million, the entire portion of its commitment with respect to that borrowing request. Under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, if a lender's commitment is not honored, that portion of the lender's commitment under the revolving credit facility will be unavailable to the extent that the lender's commitment is not replaced by a new commitment from an alternate lender. Lenders under our revolving credit facility are well-diversified, totaling 14 lenders at December 31, 2009. We currently anticipate that these lenders, other than Lehman, will participate in future requests for funding. However, there can be no assurance that further deterioration in the credit markets and overall economy will not affect the ability of our lenders to meet their funding commitments. Additionally, our lenders have the ability to transfer their commitments to other institutions, and the risk that committed funds may not be available under distressed market conditions could be exacerbated to the extent that consolidation of the commitments under our facilities or among its lenders were to occur. 15 We received notices of examination from the Internal Revenue Service regarding two claims for the alternative fuel mixture tax credit for our mills. We believe that our Androscoggin and Quinnesec mills have been eligible to receive the federal alternative fuel mixture tax credit since September 2008. In May 2009, we received separate notices from the Internal Revenue Service informing us that they would be auditing the fourth quarter 2008 Quinnesec claim and the March 2009 Androscoggin claim. Both audits are currently in progress with no findings as of this date. Although we routinely receive notices of examination by taxing authorities, there can be no assurance that further steps will not be taken by the Internal Revenue Service as a result of the examination of these claims. Litigation could be costly and harmful to our business. We are involved from time to time in claims and legal proceedings relating to contractual, employment, environmental, intellectual property and other matters incidental to the conduct of our business. We do not believe that any currently pending claim or legal proceeding is likely to result in an unfavorable outcome that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Nonetheless, claims and legal proceedings could result in unfavorable outcomes that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history as a separate company. Accordingly, our Predecessor’s combined historical financial data may not be representative of our results as a separate company. We operated as a division of International Paper prior to August 1, 2006, when we acquired the business of the Coated and Supercalendered Papers Division from International Paper. Therefore, we have a limited operating history as a separate company. Our business strategy as an independent entity may not be successful on a long-term basis. Although International Paper generally no longer sells coated or supercalendered paper, we cannot assure you that our customers will continue to do business with us on the same terms as when we were a division of International Paper or at all. We may not be able to grow our business as planned and may not remain a profitable business. In addition, the historical combined financial data included in this annual report may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been a separate independent entity pursuing our own strategies during the periods presented. Our limited operating history as a separate entity makes evaluating our business and our future financial prospects difficult. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may differ materially from our expectations based on the historical financial data contained in this annual report. Our cost structure following our separation from International Paper is not comparable to the cost structure that we experienced in prior periods. Our management has limited experience managing our business as a separate company with a significant amount of indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our cost structure in future periods will be consistent with our current expectations or will permit us to operate our business profitably. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Our business is highly competitive. Competition is based largely on price. We compete with foreign producers, some of which are lower cost producers than we are or are subsidized by governments. We also face competition from numerous North American coated and supercalendered paper manufacturers. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and fewer environmental and governmental regulations to comply with than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do or may be better positioned than we are to compete for certain opportunities. 16 Our non-U.S. competitors may develop a competitive advantage over us and other U.S. producers if the U.S. dollar strengthens in comparison to the home currency of those competitors or ocean shipping rates decrease. If the U.S. dollar strengthens, if shipping rates decrease or if overseas supply exceeds demand, imports may increase, which would cause the supply of coated paper products available in the North American market to increase. An increased supply of coated paper could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the following factors will affect our ability to compete: · product availability; · the quality of our products; · our breadth of product offerings; · our ability to maintain plant efficiencies and to achieve high operating rates; · manufacturing costs per ton; · customer service and our ability to distribute our products on time; and · the availability and/or cost of wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy and other raw materials and labor. If we are unable to obtain energy or raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We purchase wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy, and other raw materials from third parties. We may experience shortages of energy supplies or raw materials or be forced to seek alternative sources of supply. If we are forced to seek alternative sources of supply, we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. In addition, the prices for energy and many of our raw materials, especially petroleum-based chemicals, have recently been volatile and are expected to remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to a supply shortage and cost increase, ration the amount of chemicals available to us and/or we may not be able to obtain the chemicals we need to operate our business at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, certain specialty chemicals that we purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all. The supply of energy or raw materials may be adversely affected by, among other things, hurricanes and other natural disasters or an outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, events in the Middle East. For example, wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups, litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity, and the response to and prevention of wildfires and campaigns or other measures by environmental activists also could affect timber supplies. The availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice and wind storms, droughts, floods and other natural and man-made causes. Additionally, due to increased fuel costs, suppliers, distributors and freight carriers have charged fuel surcharges, which have increased our costs. Any significant shortage or significant increase in our energy or raw material costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products due to market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the supply of energy or raw materials also could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. Furthermore, we may be required to post letters of credit or other financial assurance obligations with certain of our energy and other suppliers, which could limit our financial flexibility. 17 Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We compete with producers in North America and abroad. Changes in the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar may affect international trade flows of coated paper products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports from foreign producers, increase supply in the United States, and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar and the euro, may significantly affect our competitive position, including by making it more attractive for foreign producers to restart previously shut-down paper mills or by increasing production capacity in North America or Europe. We are involved in continuous manufacturing processes with a high degree of fixed costs. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities may affect our operating performance. We seek to run our paper machines on a nearly continuous basis for maximum efficiency. Any downtime at any of our paper mills, including as a result of or in connection with planned maintenance and capital expenditure projects, results in unabsorbed fixed costs that negatively affect our results of operations for the period in which we experience the downtime. Due to the extreme operating conditions inherent in some of our manufacturing processes, we may incur unplanned business interruptions from time to time and, as a result, we may not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our operational needs. In addition, many of the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including snow storms, forest fires, and flooding. Such natural disasters could cause our mills to stop running, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, during periods of weak demand for paper products, such as the current market, we have experienced and may in the future experience market-related downtime, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Our largest customer, International Paper and its divisions and subsidiaries (including xpedx and Central Lewmar LLC), accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in 2009. In 2009, our ten largest customers (including International Paper) accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales, while our ten largest end-users accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of these customers or other customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as could significant customer disputes regarding shipments, price, quality or other matters. We may not realize certain productivity enhancements or improvements in costs. As part of our business strategy, we are in the process of identifying opportunities to improve profitability by reducing costs and enhancing productivity. For example, through our continuous process improvement program, we have implemented focused programs to optimize material and energy sourcing and usage, reduce repair costs and control overhead. We will continue to utilize the process improvement program to drive further cost reductions and operating improvements in our mill system, and have targeted additional profitability enhancements in the next twelve months. Any cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize from such efforts may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, any cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in pricing or volume, or through increases in other expenses, including raw material, energy or personnel. We cannot assure you that these initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all. 18 Rising postal costs could weaken demand for our paper products. A significant portion of paper is used in magazines, catalogs, and other promotional mailings. Many of these materials are distributed through the mail. Future increases in the cost of postage could reduce the frequency of mailings, reduce the number of pages in magazine and advertising materials, and/or cause catalog and magazine publishers to use alternate methods to distribute their materials. Any of the foregoing could decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management. We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel. A large percentage of our employees are unionized. Wage increases or work stoppages by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 35%, of our employees were represented by labor unions under three collective bargaining agreements at two of our mills, which expire in 2011. We may become subject to material cost increases or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. This could increase expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, although we believe we have good relations with our employees, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third parties for certain transportation services. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of our products to our customers and transportation of our raw materials to us, in particular, by truck and train. If any third-party transportation provider fails to deliver our products in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell them at full value. Similarly, if any transportation provider fails to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis could be adversely affected by the lack of adequate availability of transportation services, especially rail capacity, whether because of work stoppages or otherwise. Furthermore, increases in the cost of our transportation services, including as a result of rising fuel costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs or other liabilities upon us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state, and local general and industry-specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions (including greenhouse gases), wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and permits issued thereunder, is a significant factor in our business. We have made, and will continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these requirements and our permits. In addition, we handle and dispose of wastes arising from our mill operations and operate a number of on-site landfills to handle that waste. We maintain financial assurance for the projected cost of closure and post-closure care for these landfill operations. We could be subject to potentially significant fines, penalties, criminal sanctions, plant shutdowns, or interruptions in operations for any failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations, and permits. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at real property, may be held liable for the full cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former paper mills, other properties or other locations where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, wastes. The 2006 acquisition agreement with International Paper contains an environmental indemnity, subject to certain limitations, for former properties and former off-site shipments related to the business during the time it was owned by International Paper, as well as certain other limited environmental liabilities. There can be no assurance that International Paper will perform under any of its environmental indemnity obligations, and its failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to claims brought pursuant to applicable laws, rules or regulations for property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impact of our operations, including due to human exposure to hazardous substances. Increasingly stringent or new environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement actions or policies, the discovery of unknown conditions or the bringing of future claims may cause our expenditures for environmental matters to increase, and we may incur material costs associated with these matters. 19 A recent decision of the United States Supreme Court held that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. The Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA,” has subsequently issued regulations applicable to us which require monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions, and we are in compliance with those regulations. The EPA may, in the future, issue additional regulations which require installation of greenhouse gas emission controls, acquisition of emission credits as to such emissions and/or other measures which may have a material effect on our operations. The United States Congress is also considering legislation which would similarly provide for regulation of greenhouse gas emissions. It is also possible that we could become subject to other federal, state, local or supranational legislation related to climate change and greenhouse gas controls. We do not expect that we would be disproportionately affected by these measures as compared to similarly situated operators in the United States. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 