Item 1A. Risk Factors We have relied and expect to continue to rely on sales of our PX devices for almost all of our revenue; a decline in demand for desalination, reverse osmosis desalination or our PX devices will reduce demand for our products and will cause our sales and revenue to decline. Our primary product is the PX device, and sales of our PX device historically have accounted for approximately 95% of our revenue. While we sell a variety of models of the PX device depending on the design of the desalination plant and its desired output, all of our models rely on the same basic technology developed and refined over the past 12 years. We expect that the revenue from our PX devices will continue to account for most of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Any factors adversely affecting the demand for desalination, including changing weather patterns, increased precipitation, new technology for producing fresh water, new energy technology or reduced energy costs, changes in the global economy, and political changes, would reduce the demand for PX devices and would cause a significant decline in our revenue. For example, desalination projects have in the past been cancelled or delayed due to political issues, changes in precipitation and problems with financing. Similarly, any other factors adversely affecting the demand for our PX devices, including new methods of reverse osmosis desalination that reduce pressure and energy requirements, improvements in membrane technology, new energy recovery technology, increased competition, changes in customer spending priorities and industry regulations would also cause a significant decline in our revenue. Some of the factors that may affect sales of our PX device may be out of our control. We depend on the construction of new desalination plants for revenue, and as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in capital spending, availability of project financing, and other factors affecting the water desalination industry. We derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of products and services used in desalination plants for municipalities, hotels and resorts and agricultural operations in dry or drought-ridden regions of the world. The demand for our products may decrease if the construction of desalination plants declines, especially in these regions. Other factors could affect the number and capacity of desalination plants built or the timing of their completion, including the current weak global economy, the current crisis in the credit and banking systems, changes in government priorities, changes in governmental regulations, reduced capital spending for desalination and lower energy costs, which could result in cancelled orders or delays in plant construction and the installation of our products. As a result of these factors, we have experienced and may in the future experience significant variability in our revenue, on both an annual and a quarterly basis. Pronounced variability, extended delays or reductions in spending with respect to the construction of desalination plants could negatively impact our sales and revenue and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales, which could lead to increased spending by us that is not matched by equivalent or higher revenue. New planned seawater reverse osmosis projects can be cancelled and/or delayed, and cancellations and/or delays may negatively impact our revenue. Planned seawater reverse osmosis desalination projects can be cancelled or delayed due to delays in, or failure to obtain, financing or the approval of or permitting for, plant construction because of political factors, adverse and increasingly uncertain financing conditions or other factors, especially in countries with political unrest. Even though we may have a signed contract to provide a certain number of PX devices by a certain date, if a customer requests a delay of shipment and we delay shipment of our PX devices, our results of operations and revenue will be negatively impacted. 5 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of engineering and construction firms for a large portion of our revenue. If these customers delay or cancel their commitments or do not purchase our products in connection with future projects, our revenue could significantly decrease, which would adversely affect our financial condition and future growth. A limited number of our customers can account for a substantial portion of our net revenue. Revenue from engineering and construction firms and other customers representing 10% or more of total revenue varies from year to year. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, sales to two customers, Hyflux Ltd and Befesa Agua S.A. represented 27% of our net revenues. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, three customers represented approximately 56% of net revenue. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our net revenue during any of these periods. We do not have long-term contracts with our customers; instead, we sell to them on a purchase order or project basis or under individual stand-alone contracts. Orders may be postponed or delayed by our customers on short or no notice. If these customers reduce their purchases, our projected revenue may significantly decrease, which will adversely affect our financial condition and future growth. If one of our engineering and construction firm customers delays or cancels one or more of its projects, or if it fails to pay amounts due to us or delays its payments, our revenue or operating results could be negatively affected. There are a limited number of engineering and construction firms which are involved in the desalination industry. Thus, if one of them decides not to continue to use our energy recovery devices in its future projects, we may not be able replace such a lost customer with another such customer and our net revenue would be negatively affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Due to the fact that a single order for our PX devices for a particular desalination plant may represent significant revenue, we have experienced significant fluctuations in revenue from quarter to quarter, and we expect such fluctuations to continue. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock would likely decline substantially. In addition, factors that may affect our operating results include, among others: • fluctuations in demand, adoption, sales cycles and pricing levels for our products and services; • the cyclical nature of purchasing for seawater reverse osmosis desalination plant construction, which typically reflects a seasonal increase in shipments of PX devices in the fourth quarter; • changes in customers’ budgets for desalination plants and the timing of their purchasing decisions; • adverse changes in the local or global financing conditions facing our customers; • delays or postponements in the construction of desalination plants; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new products and product enhancements that meet customer demand, certification requirements and technical requirements; • the ability of our customers to obtain other key components of a plant such as high pressure pumps or membranes; • our ability to implement scalable internal systems for reporting, order processing, product delivery, purchasing, billing and general accounting, among other functions; • unpredictability of governmental regulations and political decision-making as to the approval or building of a desalination plant; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; • our ability to purchase key PX components, principally ceramics, from third party suppliers; 6 Table of Contents • our ability to compete against other companies that offer energy recovery solutions; • our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, particularly those with relevant industry experience; and • general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets. If we are unable to collect unbilled receivables, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our customer contracts generally contain holdback provisions pursuant to which the final installments to be paid under such sales contracts are due up to 24 months after the product has been shipped to the customer and revenue has been recognized. Typically, between 10 and 20%, and in some instances up to 30% of the revenue we receive pursuant to our customer contracts are subject to such holdback provisions and are accounted for as unbilled receivables until we deliver invoices for payment. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $4.9 million of current unbilled receivables and approximately $1.9 million of non-current unbilled receivables. If we are unable to invoice and collect, or if our customers fail to make payments due under our sales contracts, our results of operations will be adversely affected. If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to execute our strategies. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend on hiring highly skilled professionals with industry-specific experience, particularly given the unique and complex nature of our devices. Given the specialized nature of our business, we must hire highly skilled professionals with industry-specific experience. Our ability to successfully grow depends on recruiting skilled and experienced employees. We often compete with larger, better known companies for talented employees. Also, retention of key employees, such as our chief executive officer, who has over 30 years of experience in the water treatment industry, is vital to the successful execution of our growth strategies. Our failure to retain existing or attract future key personnel could harm our business. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to develop new products and services and increase the functionality of our current products. Since 2004, we have invested more than $5 million in research and development costs associated with our PX products. From time to time, our customers have expressed a need for greater processing efficiency. In response, and as part of our strategy to enhance our energy recovery solutions and grow our business, we plan to continue to make substantial investments in the research and development of new technologies. For instance, we are in the process of developing the Titan PX as a product for use in increasingly larger desalination plants and the Comp PX for use in smaller desalination operations. While these products have the potential to meet specified needs of key markets, their pricing may not meet customer expectations and they may not perform as well as our other PX devices. It is possible that potential customers may not accept the new pricing structure. It is also possible that the release of this product may be delayed if testing reveals unexpected flaws. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to continue to design and manufacture new products, to enhance our existing products and to provide new value-added services. We may experience unforeseen problems in the performance of our existing and new technologies or products. Furthermore, we may not achieve market acceptance of our new products and solutions. If we are unable to develop competitive new products, or if the market does not accept such products, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our plans to manufacture a portion of our ceramic components may prove to be more costly or less reliable than outsourcing. We currently outsource the production of our ceramic components from several ceramic vendors. To diversify our supply of ceramics and retain more control over our intellectual property, we intend to vertically integrate by producing a portion of our ceramic component needs in house. Recent contraction in the ceramics manufacturing business has accelerated our schedule for this initiative. If we are less efficient at producing our ceramic components or are unable to achieve required yields that are equal to or greater than the vendors to 7 Table of Contents which we outsource, then our cost of revenue may be adversely affected. If we are unable to initiate the production of our ceramics parts on schedule, unable to manufacture these parts in-house efficiently and/or another of our ceramics suppliers goes out of business, we may be exposed to increased risk of supply chain disruption and capacity shortages. Our revenue and growth model depend upon the continued viability and growth of the seawater reverse osmosis desalination industry using current technology. If there is a downturn in the seawater reverse osmosis desalination industry, our sales would be directly and adversely impacted. Changes in seawater reverse osmosis desalination technology could also reduce the demand for our devices. For example, a reduction in the operating pressure used in seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants could reduce the need for and viability of our energy recovery devices. Membrane manufacturers are actively working on lower pressure membranes for seawater reverse osmosis desalination that could potentially be used on a large scale to desalinate seawater at a much lower pressure than is currently necessary. Engineers are also evaluating the possibility of diluting seawater prior to reverse osmosis desalination to reduce the required membrane pressure. Similarly, an increase in the recovery rate would reduce the number of energy recovery devices required and would reduce the demand for our product. A significant reduction in the cost of power may reduce demand for our product or favor a less expensive product from a competitor. Any of these changes would adversely impact our revenue and growth. The durable nature of the PX device may reduce or delay potential aftermarket revenue opportunities. Our PX devices utilize ceramic components that have to date demonstrated high durability, high corrosion resistance and long life in seawater reverse osmosis desalination applications. Because most of our PX devices have only been installed for several years, it is difficult to accurately predict their performance or endurance over a longer period of time. In the event that our products are more durable than expected, our opportunity for aftermarket revenue may be deferred. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our sales efforts involve substantial education of our current and prospective customers about the use and benefits of our PX products. This education process can be time consuming and typically involves a significant product evaluation process. While the sales cycle for our OEM customers, which are involved with smaller desalination plants, averages one to three months, the average sales cycle for our international engineering and construction firm customers, which are involved with larger desalination plants, ranges from nine to 16 months and has, in some cases, extended up to 24 months. In addition, these customers generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate our technologies. As a result, our sales process involving these customers is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design, testing and adoption of new, technologically complex products. This long sales cycle makes quarter-by-quarter revenue predictions difficult and results in our investing significant resources well in advance of orders for our products. Since a significant portion of our annual sales typically occurs during the fourth quarter, any delays could affect our fourth quarter and annual revenue and operating results. A significant portion of our annual sales typically occurs during the fourth quarter, which we believe generally reflects engineering and construction firm customer buying patterns. Any delays or cancellation of expected sales during the fourth quarter would reduce our quarterly and annual revenue from what we anticipated. Such a reduction might cause our quarterly and annual revenue or quarterly and annual operating results to fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, causing the price of our common stock to decline. 8 Table of Contents We depend on three vendors for our supply of ceramics, which is a key component of our products. If any of our ceramics vendors cancels its commitments or is unable to meet our demand and/or requirements, our business could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of vendors to produce the ceramics used in our products. For the year ended December 31, 2008, three ceramics suppliers represented approximately 60% of our purchases from all of our suppliers. For the year ended December 31, 2007, two ceramics suppliers represented approximately 52% of our purchases from all of our suppliers. If any of our ceramic suppliers were to have financial difficulties, cancel or materially change their commitments with us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose customer orders, be unable to develop or sell our products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on single suppliers for some of our components, including stainless steel castings. If our suppliers are not able to meet our demand and/or requirements, our business could be harmed. We rely on single suppliers to produce all of our stainless steel castings and some other components for use in our PX products. Our reliance on single manufacturers for these parts involves a number of significant risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, production costs and lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply. We do not have a long term supply agreement with these suppliers and instead secure manufacturing availability on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements represent a small portion of the total production capacities of these suppliers and our suppliers may reallocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. We have in the past experienced and may in the future experience quality control issues and delivery delays with our suppliers due to factors such as high industry demand or the inability of our vendors to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements. If our suppliers were to cancel or materially change its commitment with us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders, be unable to develop or sell our products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may qualify additional suppliers in the future which would require time and resources. If we do not qualify additional suppliers, we may be exposed to increased risk of capacity shortages due to our complete dependence on our current supplier. We face competition from a number of companies that offers competing energy recovery solutions. If any of these companies produces superior technology or offers more cost effective products, our competitive position in the market could be harmed and our profits may decline. The market for energy recovery devices for desalination plants is competitive and continually evolving. The PX device competes with slow cycle isobaric, turbine and hydraulic energy recovery devices. Our three primary competitors are Calder AG, Fluid Equipment Development Company and Pump Engineering Incorporated. Other potential competitors may enter the market. We expect competition to persist and intensify as the desalination market opportunity grows. Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. Also, our competitors may have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we do, including long-standing relationships or exclusive contracts with our current or potential customers. For instance, we have had difficulties penetrating some of the Caribbean markets because Consolidated Water Co. Ltd., a major builder of seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants in that area, has an exclusive agreement with Calder AG to use Calder’s technology. In addition, our competitors may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to market and sell their products more effectively. Moreover, if one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors or with current or potential customers, 9 Table of Contents the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively which would affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could lead to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or result in a large number of warranty claims in any given year. We warranty our products for a period of one to two years and provide a five year warranty for the ceramic components of our products. We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. Accordingly, there is a risk that warranty claims may be filed due to product defects. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provisions do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, they could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the number of warranty claims has not been significant to date, we have offered a five year warranty on our ceramic components for new sales agreements executed after August 7, 2007. Accordingly, we cannot quantify the error rate of the ceramic components of our products with statistical accuracy and cannot assure that a large number of warranty claims will not be filed in a given year. As a result, our operating expenses may increase if a large number of warranty claims are filed in any specific year, particularly towards the end of any given warranty period. If we are unable to protect our technology or enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our competitive position depends on our ability to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and to protect our technology from copying by others. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which may offer only limited protection. We hold five United States patents and eleven patents outside the U.S. that are counterparts to one of the U.S. patents. The expiration terms of the U.S. patents range from 2011 to 2025, at which time we could become more vulnerable to increased competition. In addition, we have applied for two new United States patents and seven pending international applications corresponding to the U.S. patents and patent applications. We do not hold patents in many of the countries into which we sell our PX devices, including Saudi Arabia, Algeria and China, and accordingly, the protection of our intellectual property in those countries may be limited. We also do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, while we believe our remaining issued patents are essential to the protection of the PX technology, the rights granted under any of our issued patents or patents that may be issued in the future may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies to our own now or in the future. In addition, our granted patents may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where intellectual property laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as those in the United States. This may render our patents impaired or useless and ultimately expose us to currently unanticipated competition. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our technology infringes their proprietary rights. In addition, we may be contacted by third parties suggesting that we obtain a license to certain of their intellectual property rights they may believe we are infringing. We expect that infringement claims against us may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility, we believe that we will face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property 10 Table of Contents infringement claims. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment against us could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. Because we generally indemnify our customers if our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, any such claims would require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on their behalf, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeeds, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers. If we fail to expand our manufacturing facilities to meet our future growth, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our existing manufacturing facilities are capable of meeting current demand and demand for the foreseeable future. However, the future growth of our business depends on our ability to successfully expand our manufacturing, research and development and technical testing facilities. Larger products currently under development require a larger manufacturing facility with greater capacity. We have entered into a 10 year lease for a 124,000 square foot facility in San Leandro, California. While this space will be available to accommodate the consolidation of our U.S. operations and the expansion of our manufacturing operations, the space is being built out and will not be available until September 2009 or later. If the build-out is delayed, our production capability could be limited, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we need additional capital to fund future growth, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. In our initial public offering in July 2008, we issued approximately 10,000,000 shares of common equity at $8.50 per share before underwriting discount and issuing expenses. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations, or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure such additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. The terms of additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing or future holders of our common stock, including shares of common stock sold in this offering. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. If foreign and local government entities no longer guarantee and subsidize, or are willing to engage in, the construction and maintenance of desalination plants and projects, the demand for our products would decline and adversely affect our business. Our products are used in seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants which are often times constructed and maintained through government guarantees and subsidies. The rate of construction of desalination plants depends on each government’s willingness and ability to allocate funds for such projects, which may be affected by the current crisis in the financial system and credit markets and the weak global economy. In addition, some desalination projects in the Middle East and North Africa have been funded by budget surpluses resulting from once high crude oil and natural gas prices. Since prices for crude oil and natural gas have fallen, governments in those countries may not have budget surpluses to fund such projects and may cancel such projects or divert funds allocated for them to other projects. As a result, the demand for our products could decline and negatively affect our revenue base, which could harm the overall profitability of our business. 11 Table of Contents In addition, various water management agencies could alter demand for fresh water by investing in water reuse initiatives or limiting the use of water for certain agricultural purposes. Certain uses of water considered to be wasteful could be curtailed, resulting in more available water and less demand for alternative solutions such as desalination. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected flaws or defects which could harm our business and our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition. The manufacture of our products is highly technical, and our products may contain latent defects or flaws. We test our products prior to commercial release and during such testing have discovered and may in the future discover flaws and defects that need to be resolved prior to release. Resolving these flaws and defects can take a significant amount of time and prevent our technical personnel from working on other important tasks. In addition, our products have contained and may in the future contain one or more flaws that were not detected prior to commercial release to our customers. Some flaws in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any flaws or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our contracts with our customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers whose seawater reverse osmosis desalination facilities utilizing the PX device are outside the United States. Many of such customers’ projects are in emerging growth countries with relatively young and unstable market economies and volatile political environments. These countries may also be affected significantly by the current crisis in the global financial system and credit markets and the weak global economy. We have sales and technical support personnel stationed in Spain, Asia and the Middle East, among other regions, and we expect to continue to add personnel in other countries. As a result, any governmental changes or reforms or disruptions in the business, regulatory or political environments of the countries in which we operate or sell our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sales of our products have to date been denominated principally in U.S. dollars. The U.S. dollar has recently strengthened against most other currencies, which has effectively increased the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which our customers are located. This may result in our customers seeking lower-priced suppliers, which could adversely impact our operating results. A larger portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which would subject us to increased risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our international contracts and operations subject us to a variety of additional risks, including: • political and economic uncertainties, which the current global economic crisis may exacerbate; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell and service our products in certain foreign markets; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, beginning operations as scheduled and collecting accounts receivable, especially in emerging markets; 12 Table of Contents • increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • competing with non-U.S. companies not subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel; and • increasing instability in the capital markets and banking systems worldwide, especially in developing countries, that may limit project financing availability for the construction of desalination plants. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Global economic conditions and the current crisis in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions may negatively impact our business and make forecasting future operating results more difficult and uncertain. A weakening global economy may cause our customers to delay or push out orders for our products or may result in the delay, postponement or cancelling of planned or new desalination projects or retrofits, which would reduce our revenue. Turmoil in the financial and credit markets may also make it difficult for our customers to obtain needed project financing, resulting in lower sales. Negative economic conditions may also affect our suppliers, which could impede their ability to remain in business and supply us with parts, resulting in delays in the availability of our products. In addition, most of our cash and cash equivalents are currently invested in money market funds backed by United States Treasury securities; however, given the current weak global economy and the instability of financial institutions, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our deposits, which would adversely affect our financial condition. If current economic conditions persist or worsen and negatively impact the desalination industry, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. Future growth in our business, if it occurs, will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting and operational systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our failure to achieve or maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with SEC rules or prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company, SEC rules require that we maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of published financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Accordingly, we will be required to document and test our internal controls and procedures to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. Material weaknesses may exist when we are first required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2009. If there are material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control, we will not be able to conclude that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be 13 Table of Contents adversely affected and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. In addition, testing and maintaining internal control will require increased management time and resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the success of our business and harm our financial results and you could lose all or a significant portion of your investment. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform to generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various other bodies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the interpretation of our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial condition and operating results. In the future, we may acquire companies or assets that we believe may enhance our market position. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot assure you that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive position or that they will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from these businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our operating results or financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Insiders will continue to have substantial control over us after this offering and will be able to influence corporate matters. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock as of March 19, 2009. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; 14 Table of Contents • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and • require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. Section 203 generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder subject certain exceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 