Item 1A. Risk Factors Lack of cash and working capital could impact adversely on expansion. Limited cash flow due to our Company's past and intended expansion, we have experienced periods of very limited cash flow and working capital. This condition is likely to continue unless substantial positive cash flow is realized from operations or a significant capital infusion is received. In the absence of either of these the Company's ability to expand will likely be slowed. There is no assurance that the Company will receive a significant capital infusion in the near future or that cash flows from operations will increase dramatically in light of the current economic climate. The benefits we anticipate from acquiring TSE may not be realized. Propalms Ltd. and the Company were established to develop the underserved thin client server market for remote terminal services. The Company acquired TSE with the expectation that the acquisition will result in various benefits including, among other things, enhanced revenue and profits, and greater market presence and development. TSE was acquired to establish the Company in the emerging smaller and medium sized business markets. We may not realize any of these benefits. 6 The Company may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of TSE as rapidly as, or to the extent, anticipated by management and certain financial or industry analysts, and others may not perceive the same benefits of the acquisition as does the Company. For example, TSE's contribution to the Company financial results may not meet the current expectations of management for a number of reasons, including marketplace penetration, product integration risks, and could dilute our profits beyond the current expectations of our management. Operations and costs incurred and potential liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisition of TSE also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If these risks materialize, our publicly traded common stock price could be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market. The demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for business-related computer appliances and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain. If an unfavorable information technology spending environment develops, it could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our long sales cycle for enterprise-wide sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. In recent quarters, a growing number of our large and medium-sized customers have decided to implement our enterprise customer license arrangements on a departmental or enterprise-wide basis. Our long sales cycle for these large-scale deployments makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. We have a long sales cycle for these enterprise-wide sales because: our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large-scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our products and services; our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. The continued long sales cycle for these large-scale deployment sales could make it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. If we do not develop new products and services or enhancements to our existing products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The markets for our products and services are characterized by: rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; fluctuations in customer demand; changes in customer requirements; and frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and services and develop and introduce new products and services that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments and customer demands by introducing new products and services and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: delays in our introduction of new products and services; delays in market acceptance of new products and services or new releases of our current products and services; and our, or a competitor's, announcement of new product or service enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product and service offerings. 7 We cannot guarantee that newer versions of TSE products will achieve the broad market acceptance by our VARs and ISVs and entities with which we have a technology relationship, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products and services or new releases of our current products and services, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that we could incur additional costs and royalties as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments to fund these additional costs. If we lose key personnel or cannot hire enough qualified employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees. Except for the CEO and President/CFO, we do not have long-term employment our personnel. The effective management of our growth, if any, could depend upon our ability to retain our highly-skilled technical, sales and services managerial, finance and marketing personnel. If any of those employees leave, we will need to attract and retain replacements for them. We may also need to add key personnel in the future. The market for these qualified employees is competitive. We could find it difficult to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel in sufficient numbers. Also, we may need to hire additional personnel to develop new products, product enhancements and technologies. If we cannot add the necessary staff and resources, our ability to develop future enhancements and features to our existing or future products could be delayed. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to manage our operations or; to continue to grow revenue or fail to continue to effectively control expenses, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations and our revenue have grown rapidly. This growth could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage our current growth and any future growth effectively, we need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost-effective way. Our future operating results could also depend on our ability to manage: our existing product lines; our sales and marketing organizations; and our client support organization as installations of our products increase. In addition, to the extent our revenue grows, if at all, we believe that our cost of revenues and certain operating expenses could also increase. We believe that we could incur additional costs, including royalties, as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products and services. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses and lower our gross margins. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred or of these developing trends in our business. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments or issue additional shares of our common stock to fund these additional costs. We cannot assure you that our operating expenses will be lower than our estimated or actual revenues in any given quarter. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we likely will not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Also, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses and our current expectation for revenue growth, our income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities could be lower than in recent years. 8 Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us, which could negatively affect the growth of our business. Our business strategy includes the selective acquisition of businesses and/or technologies. We plan to seek opportunities to expand our product portfolio, customer base, technology, and technical talent through acquisitions. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. We expect that other companies in our industry will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for businesses and technologies that we would likely pursue, and our competitors may have far greater resources than we do to complete these acquisitions. If we determine that any of our goodwill or intangible assets, including technology purchased in acquisitions, are impaired, we would be required to take a charge to earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets, such as product and core technology, related to our TSE acquisition. We do not amortize goodwill and intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we do amortize certain product and core technologies and other intangibles. We periodically evaluate our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment). We review for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non-cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, impairment testing requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units based on our internal reporting structure that reflects the way we manage our business and operations and to which our goodwill and intangible assets would be assigned. Significant judgments are required to estimate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets, including estimating future cash flows, determining appropriate discount rates, estimating the applicable tax rates, foreign exchange rates and interest rates, projecting the future industry trends and market conditions, and making other assumptions. Changes in these estimates and assumptions, including changes in our reporting structure, could materially affect our determinations of fair value. We recorded approximately $958,000 of goodwill and unamortized intangible assets in connection with our TSE acquisition. If the actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired intangible assets are less than the projections we used to initially value these intangible assets when we acquired them, then these intangible assets may be deemed to be impaired. If we determine that any of the goodwill or other intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions are impaired, then we would be required to reduce the value of those assets or to write them off completely by taking a related charge to earnings. If we are required to write down or write off all or a portion of those assets, or if financial analysts or investors believe we may need to take such action in the future, our stock price and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to expand and diversify our distribution channels. We currently intend to continue to expand our distribution channels by leveraging our relationships with independent hardware and software vendors and system integrators to encourage them to recommend or distribute our products. In addition, an integral part of our strategy is to diversify our base of channel relationships by adding and training more channel members with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers and to sell our newer products. This strategy will require additional resources, as we will need to expand our internal sales and service coverage of these customers. If we fail in these efforts and cannot expand, train or diversify our distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. In addition to this diversification of our base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of channel members who cater to smaller customers. We may need to add and remove distribution members to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. We are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits. 9 We could change our licensing programs or subscription renewal programs, which could negatively impact the timing of our recognition of revenue. We continually re-evaluate our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including offering specified and unspecified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. Such changes could result in recognizing revenues over the contract term as opposed to upon the initial shipment or licensing of our software product. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period. Changes to our licensing programs and subscription renewal programs, including the timing of the release of enhancements, upgrades, and maintenance releases, the term of the contract, discounts and other factors, could impact the timing of the recognition of revenue for our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Sales of our TSE product constitute substantially all of our license sales revenue and our deferred revenue. We anticipate that sales of our TSE product will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our license sales revenue. Our ability to continue to generate both recognized and deferred revenue from that product will depend on our customers continuing to perceive value in automatic delivery of our software upgrades and enhancements. If our customers do not continue to purchase our TSE product, our license sales revenue and deferred revenue would decrease significantly and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. As our international sales and operations grow, we could become increasingly subject to additional risks that could harm our business. We conduct significant sales and customer support, development and engineering operations in countries outside of the United States. During the year ended January 31, 2008, we derived approximately 44.5% of our revenues from sales other than the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. To successfully expand international sales, we must establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could cause fluctuations in the results of our international operations. These risks include: compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by United States export laws; longer accounts receivable payment cycles; potentially adverse tax consequences; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; and as we generate cash flow in non-United States jurisdictions, if required, we may experience difficulty transferring such funds to the United States in a tax efficient manner. Our proprietary rights could offer only limited protection. Our products, including products obtained through acquisitions, could infringe third-party intellectual property rights, which could result in material costs. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be successful. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, trade name, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all, and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage. We are subject to risks associated with our strategic and technology relationships. Our business depends on strategic and technology relationships primarily with our VAR's and ISV's. We cannot assure you that those relationships will continue in the future. In addition to our relationship with Microsoft, we rely on strategic or technology relationships with other companies. We depend on the entities with which we have strategic or technology relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current strategic and technology relationships or to develop additional strategic and technology relationships. If any entities in which we have a strategic or technology relationship are unable to incorporate our technology into their products or to market or sell those products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 10 Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain and further penetrate large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and penetrate large enterprise customers by adding more effective VARs and ISVs. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. By granting special pricing, such as bundled pricing or discounts, to these large customers, we may have to defer recognition of some or all of the revenue from such sales. This deferral could reduce our revenues and operating profits for a given reporting period. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, we may need to increase corporate branding and marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. We rely on distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control. We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers (VARs and ISVs) to market and distribute our products and appliances. We do not control our distributors and resellers. Additionally, our distributors and resellers are not obligated to buy our products and could also represent other lines of products. We maintain and periodically revise our sales incentive programs for our independent distributors and resellers, and such program revisions may adversely impact our results of operations. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays, defaults or terminations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products and may not be detected until after our products are shipped. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases or acquired products, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third party products, which could contain defects and reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission-critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our product development and acquisitions and fulfill our future obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our operations and product development, including the payment of cash consideration in acquisitions and the payment of our other obligations, depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to liquidate our investments, repatriate cash and investments held in our overseas subsidiaries, sell assets or raise equity or debt financings when needed or desirable. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information, please refer to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our stock price could be volatile, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; analyst reports or recommendations; changes in interest rates; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. 11 The stock market in general, and stock markets for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our net revenues have fluctuated quarterly and have generally been the highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced level of economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues. Quarterly results are also affected by the timing of the release of new products and services. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter, especially our fourth quarter, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Our common stock may be considered a "penny stock" and may be difficult to sell. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be an equity security that has a market or exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to specific exemptions. The market price of our common stock may be below $5.00 per share and therefore may be designated as a "penny stock" according to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. In addition, since our common stock is currently quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, our stockholders may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may find few buyers to purchase the stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. We are subject to risks associated with our strategic and technology relationships. Our business depends on strategic and technology relationships. We cannot assure you that those relationships will continue in the future. In addition to our relationship with Microsoft, we rely on strategic or technology relationships with other companies. We depend on the entities with which we have strategic or technology relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current strategic and technology relationships or to develop additional strategic and technology relationships. If any entities in which we have a strategic or technology relationship are unable to incorporate our technology into their products or to market or sell those products, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 