Item 1A. Risk Factors Almost all of our revenue is derived from sales of energy recovery devices and pumps used in reverse osmosis desalination; a decline in demand for desalination or the reverse osmosis method of desalination will reduce demand for our products and will cause our sales and revenue to decline. Products for the desalination market have historically accounted for a high percentage of our revenue. We expect that the revenue from these products will continue to account for most of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Any factors adversely affecting the demand for desalination, including changes in weather patterns, increased precipitation in areas of high human population density, new technology for producing fresh water, increased water conservation or reuse, political changes and unrest, changes in the global economy, or changes in industry or governmental regulations would reduce the demand for our energy recovery products and services and would cause a significant decline in our revenue. Similarly, any factors adversely affecting the demand for energy recovery products in reverse osmosis desalination, including new energy technology or reduced energy costs, new methods of desalination that reduce pressure and energy requirements, or improvements in membrane technology would reduce the demand for our energy recovery devices and would cause a significant decline in our revenue. Some of the factors that may affect sales of our energy recovery devices and pumps may be out of our control. - 6 - We depend on the construction of new desalination plants for revenue, and as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in capital spending, availability of project financing, and other factors affecting the water desalination industry. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of products and services used in desalination plants for municipalities, hotels, resorts and agricultural operations in dry or drought-ridden regions of the world. The demand for our products may decrease if the construction of desalination plants declines for political, economic or other factors, especially in these regions. Other factors that could affect the number and capacity of desalination plants built or the timing of their completion include: the availability of required engineering and design resources, a weak global economy, shortage in the supply of credit and other forms of financing, changes in government regulations, permitting requirements or priorities, or reduced capital spending for desalination. Each of these factors could result in reduced or uneven demand for our products. Pronounced variability or delays in the construction of desalination plants or reductions in spending for desalination could negatively impact our sales and revenue and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales and revenue, which could lead to increased inventory and use of working capital. Our revenue and growth model depend upon the continued viability and growth of the seawater reverse osmosis desalination industry using current technology. If there is a downturn in the seawater reverse osmosis desalination industry, our sales would be directly and adversely impacted. Changes in seawater reverse osmosis desalination technology could also reduce the demand for our devices. For example, a reduction in the operating pressure used in seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants could reduce the need for, and viability of, our energy recovery devices. Membrane manufacturers are actively working on low-pressure membranes for seawater reverse osmosis desalination that could potentially be used on a large scale to desalinate seawater at a much lower pressure than is currently necessary. Engineers are also evaluating the possibility of diluting seawater prior to reverse osmosis desalination to reduce the required membrane pressure. Similarly, an increase in the membrane recovery rate would reduce the number of energy recovery devices required and would reduce the demand for our product. A significant reduction in the cost of power may reduce demand for our product or favor a less expensive product from a competitor. Any of these changes would adversely impact our revenue and growth. Water shortages and demand for desalination can also be adversely affected by water conservation and water reuse initiatives. New planned seawater reverse osmosis projects can be cancelled and/or delayed, and cancellations and/or delays may negatively impact our revenue. Planned seawater reverse osmosis desalination projects can be cancelled or postponed due to delays in, or failure to obtain, approval, financing or permitting for plant construction because of political factors, including political unrest in key desalination markets such as the Middle East or adverse and increasingly uncertain financial conditions or other factors. Even though we may have a signed contract to provide a certain number of energy recovery devices by a certain date, shipments may be suspended or delayed at the request of customers. Such shipping delays negatively impact our results of operations and revenue. As a result of these factors, we have experienced and may in the future experience significant variability in our revenue on both an annual and a quarterly basis. We rely on a limited number of engineering, procurement and construction firms for a large portion of our revenue. If these customers delay or cancel their commitments, do not purchase our products in connection with future projects, or are unable to attract and retain sufficient qualified engineers to support their growth, our revenue could significantly decrease, which would adversely affect our financial condition and future growth. There are a limited number of large engineering, procurement and construction firms in the desalination industry and these customers account for a substantial portion of our net revenue. One or more of these customers represent 10% or more of our total revenue each year and the customers in this category vary from year to year. See Note 15 — "Concentrations" to the condensed consolidated financial statements regarding the impact of customer concentrations on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Since we do not have long-term contracts with these large customers but sell to them on a purchase order or project basis, these orders may be postponed or delayed on short or no notice. If any of these customers reduces or delays its purchases, cancels a project, decides not to specify our products for future projects, fails to attract and retain qualified engineers and other staff, fails to pay amounts due us, or experiences financial difficulties or reduced demand for its services, we may not be able to replace that lost business and our projected revenue may significantly decrease, which will adversely affect our financial condition and future growth. - 7 - We face competition from a number of companies that offer competing energy recovery and pump solutions. If any of these companies produce superior technology or offer more cost-effective products, our competitive position in the market could be harmed and our profits may decline. The market for energy recovery devices and pumps for desalination plants is competitive and evolving. We expect competition, especially competition on price and warranty terms, to persist and intensify as the desalination market grows, and new competitors enter the market. Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, longer operating histories or greater name recognition. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and respond more quickly to new technology. These companies may also have more extensive customer bases, broader customer relationships across product lines, or long-standing or exclusive relationships with our current or potential customers. They may also have more extensive products and product lines that would enable them to offer multi-product or packaged solutions or competing products at lower prices or with other more favorable terms and conditions. As a result, our ability to sustain our market share may be adversely impacted, which would affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if another one of our competitors were to merge or partner with another company, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our continuing ability to compete effectively. Global economic conditions and the current crisis in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Current economic conditions may continue to negatively impact our business and make forecasting future operating results more difficult and uncertain. A weak global economy may cause our customers to delay product orders or shipments, or delay or cancel planned or new desalination projects, including retrofits, which would reduce our revenue. Turmoil in the financial and credit markets may also make it difficult for our customers to obtain needed project financing, resulting in lower sales. Negative economic conditions may also affect our suppliers, which could impede their ability to remain in business and supply us with parts, resulting in delays in the availability or shipment of our products. In addition, cash, cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments that we may from time to time hold are typically invested in a range of certificates of deposit, money market funds, government obligations, corporate obligations and other securities summarized in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Given the current weak global economy, the potential instability of domestic and foreign financial institutions, and external risks such as the European sovereign debt problems, we cannot be assured that we will not experience losses on our investments, which would adversely affect our financial condition. If current economic conditions persist or worsen and negatively impact the desalination industry, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future operating results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Since a single order for our energy recovery devices may represent substantial revenue, we have experienced significant fluctuations in revenue from quarter to quarter and year to year, and we expect such fluctuations to continue. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, factors that may affect our operating results include, among others: • fluctuations in demand, sales cycles and pricing levels for our products and services; • the cyclical nature of equipment purchasing for planned reverse osmosis desalination plants, • changes in customers' budgets for desalination plants and the timing of their purchasing decisions; • adverse changes in the local or global financing conditions facing our customers; • delays or postponements in the construction of desalination plants; • our ability to develop, introduce and timely ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer demand and contractual and technical requirements, including scheduled delivery dates, performance guarantees, product certifications and warranty terms; - 8 - • the ability of our customers to obtain other critical plant components such as high-pressure pumps or membranes; • our ability to implement scalable internal systems for reporting, order processing, product delivery, purchasing, billing and general accounting, among other functions; • our ability to maintain efficient factory throughput in our new facility and minimize overhead given significant variability in orders from quarter to quarter and year to year; • unpredictability of governmental regulations and political decision-making as to the approval or building of a desalination plant; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; • our ability to purchase critical raw materials from third-party suppliers; • our ability to compete against other companies that offer energy recovery solutions; • our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees, particularly those with relevant industry experience; and • general economic conditions in our domestic and international markets, including conditions that affect the valuation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. If we are unable to collect unbilled receivables, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our contracts with large engineering, procurement and construction firms generally contain holdback provisions that delay final installment payments up to 24 months after the product has been shipped and revenue has been recognized. Typically, between 10% and 20%, and in some instances up to 30%, of the revenue we receive pursuant to our customer contracts is subject to such holdback provisions and is accounted for as unbilled receivables until we deliver invoices for payment. Such holdbacks can result in relatively high current and non-current unbilled receivables. If we are unable to invoice and collect these performance holdbacks or if our customers fail to make these payments when due under the sales contracts, our results of operations will be adversely affected.\ If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to execute our strategies. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend on hiring highly skilled professionals with industry-specific experience, particularly given the unique and complex nature of our devices. Given the specialized nature of our business, we must hire highly skilled professionals for certain positions with industry-specific experience. Given the nature of the reverse osmosis desalination industry, the number of qualified candidates for certain positions is limited. Our ability to grow depends on recruiting and retaining skilled employees with relevant experience, competing with larger, often better known companies and offering competitive total compensation packages. Our failure to retain existing or attract future talented and experienced key personnel could harm our business. The future success of our business may depend on our ability to diversify into new markets outside desalination while continuing to market, enhance and scale existing desalination products. We believe that developing new products for applications outside desalination is a necessary strategy to accelerate future growth in our business, as we continue to market, enhance and scale existing desalination products. While new or enhanced products and services have the potential to meet specified needs of new or existing markets, pricing may not meet customer expectations, and they may not compete favorably with products and services of current or potential competitors. New products may be delayed or cancelled if they do not meet specifications, performance requirements or quality standards, or perform as expected in a production environment. Product designs also may not scale as expected. We may have difficulty finding new markets for our existing technology or developing or acquiring new products for new markets. Customers may not accept or be slow to adopt new products and services and potential new markets may be too costly to penetrate. In addition, we may not be able to offer our products and services at prices that meet customer expectations without increasing our costs and eroding our margins. We may also have difficulty executing plans to break into new markets, expanding our operations to successfully manufacture new products or scaling our operations to accommodate increased business. If we are unable to develop competitive new products, open new cost-effective markets, and scale our business to support increased sales and new markets, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. - 9 - We have hired and promoted individuals to new executive positions and undertaken other activities to pursue new markets beyond desalination. We may incur significant personnel and development expenses in these efforts without assurance as to when or if new products will contribute to revenue or be profitable. Our plans to manufacture ceramic components may prove to be more costly or less reliable than outsourcing. We previously outsourced the production of our ceramic components to a limited number of ceramic vendors. In 2011, to diversify our supply of ceramics, insure the availability of a reliable source of quality ceramic components, and retain more control over our intellectual property, we validated internal production capability at our own ceramics plant at our headquarters in San Leandro, California to manufacture most ceramic products used in PX devices. We also completed in 2011 the closure of our manufacturing plant in Michigan and integration of all production operations in San Leandro. We also anticipate that this internal production capacity at one location will reduce costs, improve efficiencies and quality, and enhance research and development efforts. If we are less efficient at producing our ceramic components or are unable to achieve required yields that are equal to or greater than the vendors to which we previously outsourced, then our cost of manufacturing may be adversely affected. If we are unable to ramp up the internal production of our ceramics parts or manufacture these parts cost-effectively and/or if for any reason we are not able to purchase sufficient raw materials on a timely basis, we may be exposed to capacity shortages, and our business and financial results, including our cost of goods sold and margins, may be adversely affected. In 2011, the expenses associated with completing the integration of our ceramics facility in San Leandro contributed to the decrease in gross profit as a percentage of net revenue in 2011 compared to 2010, and we cannot currently predict whether the integration of our ceramic production at the facility will achieve the supply and cost reduction advantages that we anticipate. We also cannot predict the degree to which we will achieve future improvement in efficiency or commercial results from research and development efforts. We do not own sources of, or mine, ceramic raw materials and rely on a limited number of vendors to supply ceramic raw materials for our PX products. If any of our ceramic suppliers were to have financial difficulties, cancel or materially change their commitments with us or fail to meet the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products and we are unable to make up that shortfall through other sources, we could lose customer orders, be unable to develop or sell our products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The durable nature of the PX device may reduce or delay potential aftermarket revenue opportunities. Our PX devices utilize ceramic components that have to date demonstrated high durability, high corrosion resistance and long life in seawater reverse osmosis desalination applications. Because most of our PX devices have been installed for a limited number of years, it is difficult to accurately predict their performance or endurance over a longer period of time. In the event that our products are more durable than expected, our opportunity for aftermarket revenue may be deferred. Our sales cycle can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our sales efforts involve substantial education of our current and prospective customers about the use and benefits of our energy recovery products. This education process can be time-consuming and typically involves a significant product evaluation process. While the sales cycle for our OEM customers, which are involved with smaller desalination plants, averages one to three months, the average sales cycle for our international engineering, procurement and construction firm customers, which are involved with larger desalination plants, ranges from six to 16 months and has, in some cases, extended up to 24 months. In addition, these customers generally must make a significant commitment of resources to test and evaluate our technologies. As a result, our sales process involving these customers is often subject to delays associated with lengthy approval processes that typically accompany the design, testing and adoption of new, technologically complex products. This long sales cycle makes quarter-by-quarter revenue predictions difficult and results in our investing significant resources well in advance of orders for our products. \ We have historically experienced significant fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarter to quarter basis, and expect that such fluctuations will continue, making it difficult for us and the market to anticipate future results. We have historically experienced a variety of factors that cause our quarterly results of operations to fluctuate significantly. In some past years, customer buying patterns led to a significant portion of our sales occurring in the fourth quarter, with the risk that delays, cancellations or other adverse events in the fourth quarter had a substantial negative impact on annual results. More recently, our results have fluctuated or decreased due to adverse timing of larger orders during the year, the effects of a global decline in new desalination project construction stemming from global economic and financial pressures, and competition. It is difficult for us and the market to anticipate our future results, and our stock price may be adversely affected by the risks discussed in this paragraph. - 10 - We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of our components. If our suppliers are not able to meet our demand and/or requirements, our business could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for vessel housings, stainless steel castings and alumina powder for our PX devices and castings for our PEI turbochargers and pumps. Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturers for these supplies involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, production costs and lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply. We do not have long-term supply agreements with these suppliers and instead secure these supplies on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements represent a small portion of the total production capacities of these suppliers, and our suppliers may reallocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, quality control issues and delivery delays with our suppliers due to factors such as high industry demand or the inability of our vendors to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements. If our suppliers were to cancel or materially change their commitments with us or fail to meet quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders, be unable to develop or sell our products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may qualify additional suppliers in the future which would require time and resources. If we do not qualify additional suppliers, we may be exposed to increased risk of capacity shortages due to our dependence on current suppliers. We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could lead to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or result in a significant or a large number of warranty or other claims in any given year. We have historically provided a warranty for certain products for a period of one to two years and provided up to a six-year warranty for the ceramic components of our PX-branded products. Based on the evolution of our ceramics technology, we currently expect to increase the ceramics warranty in certain cases at commercial rates. We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. However, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market, or will replicate the harsh, corrosive and varied conditions of the desalination plants and other plants in which they are installed. In addition, certain components of our turbochargers and pumps are custom-made and may not scale or perform as required in production environments. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have significant warranty claims or breach supply agreements due to product defects. We may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provisions do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, they could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While the number of warranty claims has not been significant to date, we have only offered up to a six-year warranty on the ceramic components of our PX products in new sales agreements executed after August 7, 2007, and we have only offered PEI products since December 2009 when we acquired Pump Engineering, LLC. We cannot quantify the error rate of our products and the ceramic components of our PX products with statistical accuracy and cannot assure that a large number of warranty claims will not be filed in a given year. As a result, our operating expenses may increase if a significant or large number of warranty or other claims are filed in any specific year, particularly towards the end of any given warranty period. If we are unable to protect our technology or enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our competitive position depends on our ability to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and to protect our technology from copying by others. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark laws and confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which may offer only limited protection. We hold a limited number of United States patents and patents outside the U.S. that are counterparts to several of the U.S. patents and when their terms expire, we could become more vulnerable to increased competition. We do not hold issued patents in many of the countries where competing products are used, though we do have pending applications in countries where we have substantial sales activity. Accordingly, the protection of our intellectual property in some of those countries may be limited. We also do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented or invalidated. Moreover, while we believe our remaining issued patents are essential to the protection of our technology, the rights granted under any of our issued patents or patents that may be issued in the future may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies now or in the future. In addition, our granted patents may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where intellectual property laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as those in the United States. This may render our patents impaired or useless and ultimately expose us to currently unanticipated competition. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. - 11 - For example, earlier in 2011, we filed a lawsuit, and obtained a temporary restraining order, against a former founder of our company who hired two of our employees and, we believe, used our proprietary technology in order to develop a competing product. Discovery has not been completed, and a trial is currently scheduled for August 2012. Although we believe we have a strong case in this matter and have obtained the temporary restraining order, we cannot predict with certainty the degree to which we will ultimately prevail in this or other possible future matters involving former employees or others seeking to use our proprietary technology. Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our technology infringes their proprietary rights. In addition, we or our customers may be contacted by third parties suggesting that we obtain a license to certain of their intellectual property rights they may believe we are infringing. We expect that infringement claims against us may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility, we believe that we will face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment against us could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. Because we generally indemnify our customers if our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, any such claims would require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on their behalf in one or more jurisdictions, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeeds, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers. We are currently involved in legal proceedings, and may be subject to additional future legal proceedings, that may result in material adverse outcomes. In addition to intellectual property litigation risks discussed above, we are involved, and may become involved in the future, in various commercial and other disputes and related claims and legal proceedings, that arise from time to time in the course of our business. We believe we have substantial defenses in the matters currently pending. However, the process of settling or litigating claims is subject to uncertainties, and our views of these matters may change in the future. We are not able in all matters to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an outcome adverse to us. We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Please refer to Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements included in this report for a description of certain legal proceedings currently pending. Our business entails significant costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term while demand for our products is variable and subject to downturns, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our business requires investments in facilities, equipment, R&D and training that are either fixed or difficult to reduce or scale in the short term. At the same time, the market for our products is variable and has experienced downturns due to factors such as economic recessions, increased precipitation, uncertain global financial markets, and political changes, many of which are outside our control. During periods of reduced product demand, we may experience higher relative costs and excess manufacturing capacity, resulting in high overhead and lower gross margins and causing cash flow and profitability to decline. Similarly, while we believe that our existing manufacturing facilities are capable of meeting current demand and demand for the foreseeable future, the continued success of our business depends on our ability to expand our manufacturing, research and development and testing facilities to meet market needs. If we are unable to respond timely to an increase in demand, our revenue, gross margin, cash flow and profitability may be adversely affected. - 12 - If we need additional capital to fund future growth, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing to fund our operations, capital expenditures and expansion. In our initial public offering in July 2008, we issued approximately 10,000,000 shares of common stock at $8.50 per share before underwriting discount and issuing expenses. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities. We may not be able to secure such additional financing on favorable terms or at all. The terms of additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities we issue could have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing or future holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. If foreign and local government entities no longer guarantee and subsidize, or are willing to engage in, the construction and maintenance of desalination plants and projects, the demand for our products would decline and adversely affect our business. Our products are used in seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants which are often constructed and maintained with local, regional or national government guarantees and subsidies, including tax-free bonds. The rate of construction of desalination plants depends on each governing entity's willingness and ability to obtain and allocate funds for such projects, which capabilities may be affected by the current weak global financial system and credit market and the weak global economy. In addition, some desalination projects in the Middle East and North Africa have been funded by budget surpluses resulting from once high crude oil and natural gas prices. Since prices for crude oil and natural gas vary, governments in those countries may not have the necessary funding for such projects and may cancel the projects or divert funds allocated for them to other projects. Political unrest, coups or changes in government administrations, such as recent political changes and unrest in the Middle East, may result in policy or priority changes that may also cause governments to cancel, delay or re-contract planned or ongoing projects. Government embargoes may also prohibit sales into certain countries. As a result, the demand for our products could decline and negatively affect our revenue base, our overall profitability and pace of our expected growth. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected flaws or defects which could harm our business and our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition. The manufacture of our products is highly technical and some designs and components of our turbochargers and pumps are custom-made. Our products may contain latent defects or flaws. We test our products prior to commercial release and during such testing have discovered and may in the future discover flaws and defects that need to be resolved prior to release. Resolving these flaws and defects can take a significant amount of time and prevent our technical personnel from working on other important tasks. In addition, our products have contained and may in the future contain one or more flaws that were not detected prior to commercial release to our customers. Some flaws in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any flaws or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty. Our contracts with our customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld or, for reasons of good long-term customer relations, we may not be willing to enforce. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers whose seawater reverse osmosis desalination facilities are outside the United States. Many of these projects are located in emerging growth countries with relatively young or unstable market economies or changing political environments. These countries may be affected significantly by the current weak global economy and unstable credit markets. We also rely on sales and technical support personnel stationed in Europe, Asia and the Middle East, and we expect to continue to add personnel in other countries. Governmental changes, political unrest or reforms, or other disruptions or changes in the business, regulatory or political environments of the countries in which we sell our products or have staff could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 13 - Sales of our products have to date been denominated principally in U.S. dollars. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against most other currencies, it will effectively increase the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which our customers are located. This may result in our customers seeking lower-priced suppliers, which could adversely impact our revenue, margins and operating results. A larger portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which would subject us to increased risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our international contracts and operations subject us to a variety of additional risks, including: • political and economic uncertainties, which the current global economic crisis may exacerbate; • uncertainties related to the application of local contract and other laws, including reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell and service our products in certain foreign markets; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, beginning operations as scheduled and collecting accounts receivable, especially in emerging markets; • increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • competing with non-U.S. companies not subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulty in attracting, hiring and retaining qualified personnel; and • increasing instability in the capital markets and banking systems worldwide, especially in developing countries, which may limit project financing availability for the construction of desalination plants. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business would be harmed. Future growth in our business, if it occurs, will place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. To manage any future growth, we will need to hire, integrate and retain highly skilled and motivated employees. We will also need to continue to improve our financial and management controls, reporting and operational systems and procedures. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our failure to achieve or maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with SEC rules or prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company, SEC rules require that we maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of published financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. Accordingly, we are required to document and test our internal controls and procedures to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. Our acquisition of Pump Engineering, LLC and possible future acquisitions may increase this risk by expanding the scope and nature of operations over which we must develop and maintain internal control over financial reporting. If there are material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control, we will not be able to conclude that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. In addition, testing and maintaining internal control will require increased management time and resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the success of our business and harm our financial results and an investor could lose all or a significant portion of their investment. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. - 14 - Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform to GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various other bodies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the interpretation of our current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the manner in which we conduct our business. Our past acquisition and future acquisitions could disrupt our business, impact our margins, cause dilution to our stockholders or harm our financial condition and operating results. We acquired privately-held Pump Engineering, LLC in late 2009 and, in the future, we may invest in other companies, technologies or assets. We may not realize the expected benefits from our past or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find other suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot assure that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive or financial position or that they will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets, investors or the media. Acquisitions could also result in shareholder dilution or significant acquisition-related charges for restructuring, share-based compensation and the amortization of purchased technology and intangible assets. Expenses resulting from impairment of acquired goodwill, intangible assets and purchased technology could also increase over time if the fair value of those assets decreases. A future change in our market conditions, a downturn in our business, or a long-term decline in the quoted market price of our stock may result in a reduction of the fair value of acquisition-related assets. Any such impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, when we make an acquisition, we may have to assume some or all of that entity's liabilities, which may include liabilities that are not fully known at the time of the acquisition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. If we continue to make acquisitions, we may require additional cash or use shares of our common stock as payment, which would cause dilution for our existing stockholders. Acquisitions, including our 2009 acquisition of Pump Engineering, LLC, entail a number of risks that could harm our ability to achieve their anticipated benefits. We could have difficulties integrating and retaining key management and other personnel, aligning product plans and sales strategies, coordinating research and development efforts, supporting customer relationships, aligning operations and integrating accounting, order processing, purchasing and other support services. Since acquired companies have different accounting and other operational practices, we may have difficulty harmonizing order processing, accounting, billing, resource management, information technology and other systems company-wide. We may also have to invest more than anticipated in product or process improvements. Especially with acquisitions of privately held or non-US companies, we may face challenges developing and maintaining internal controls consistent with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and US public accounting standards. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities and disrupt other strategic, research and development, marketing or sales efforts. Geographic and time zone differences and disparate corporate cultures may increase the difficulties and risks of an acquisition. If integration of our acquired businesses or assets is not successful or disrupts our ongoing operations, acquisitions may increase our expenses, harm our competitive position, adversely impact our operating results and financial condition and fail to achieve anticipated revenue, cost, competitive or other objectives. Insiders and principal stockholders will likely have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers and other principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. Although they do not have majority control of the outstanding stock, these stockholders will likely have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. - 15 - Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage delay or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer or the president; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and • require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above-mentioned provisions. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. Section 203 generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder subject to certain exceptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 