ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock is highly speculative in nature, involves a high degree of risk and should be purchased only by persons who can afford to lose the entire amount invested in our common stock. Before purchasing any of our common stock, you should carefully consider the following factors relating to our business and prospects. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in the U.S. and other countries. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results will suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may not be able to sustain our rapid growth, and the continuation of rapid growth may strain our resources. Our business has grown and evolved rapidly since our establishment as demonstrated by our growth in revenue from approximately $79.1 million in 2007 to $130.1 million in 2010. Our net income attributable to our common stockholders has grown from approximately $7.9 million in 2007 to $19.3 million in 2010. We may not be able to achieve similar growth in future periods. Therefore, our historical operating results may not provide a meaningful basis for evaluating our business, financial performance and prospects in the future. Our ability to achieve satisfactory operating results at higher sales volumes is unproven. In addition, our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure, which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results. You should not rely on our past results or our historical rate of growth as an indication of our future performance. We are vulnerable to shortages in raw paper supply and electricity, and fluctuations in raw paper prices. The main raw material used in manufacturing our paper cartons is raw paper. The cost of raw paper constituted approximately 65% to 80% of our cost of goods sold historically. We source our raw paper in China. 20 In order to ensure timely delivery of quality products to our customers at competitive prices, we need to obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials at acceptable prices in a timely manner. We also require a significant amount of electricity in order to maintain our operations. We have not experienced any significant shortage in raw material supply or electricity thus far. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials of acceptable quality from our suppliers at acceptable prices in a timely manner or that we will not suffer from electricity shortages in the future. Furthermore, as raw paper is a commodity, we are vulnerable to the risk of rising raw paper prices, which are determined by demand and supply conditions in the global and the PRC markets. Should there be any significant increases in the price of raw paper, and if we are unable to pass on such increases in costs to our customers or find alternative suppliers who are able to supply us raw paper at reasonable prices, our business and profitability would be adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by a significant or prolonged economic downturn in the level of consumer spending in the industries and markets served by our customers. Our business is affected by the number of orders that we are able to secure from our customers, which is determined by the level of business activity of our customers. The level of business activity of our customers is in turn determined by the level of consumer spending in the markets our customers serve. We sell most of our products to consumer goods manufacturers in the YRD. Certain of these customers produce consumer goods for overseas markets, in addition to the PRC market. Any significant or prolonged decline of the PRC economy or economy of such other markets will affect consumers' disposable income and consumer spending in these markets, and lead to a decrease in demand for consumer products. To the extent that such decrease in demand for consumer products translates into a decline in the demand for paper packaging products such as our paper cartons, our performance will be adversely affected. A large percentage of our sales revenue is derived from sales to a limited number of customers, and our business will suffer if sales to these customers decline. Sales to our three major customers, Hangzhou Wahaha Group Co., Ltd, Nongfu Spring Co., Ltd. and Hangzhou Cigarette Company, accounted in aggregate for approximately 11.6%, 17.3%, 19.1% and 19.4% of our revenue for 2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our ability to retain these major customers is important to our continued success. There is, however, no assurance that these customers will continue to purchase our products at the current levels in the future. There is also no assurance that we will be able to decrease our dependence on these major customers over time. In the event that these major customers cease or reduce significantly their purchase of our products and we are unable to obtain substitute orders of comparable size, there will be a material adverse impact on our financial performance and position. Our customers are principally located within a 500 kilometer radius from our manufacturing plant. Due to the cost of transportation and the need for timely delivery, serving customers situated outside that radius is less attractive economically for us. If we lose our major customers, we may not be able to replace these accounts with customers within the 500 kilometer radius. If we have to service accounts outside that radius, our cost may increase, thereby affecting our margins adversely. The continuing consolidation of our customer base may intensify pricing pressures and may negatively affect our financial performance. Over the last few years, many of our large customers have acquired, or been acquired by, companies with similar or complementary product lines. This consolidation has increased the concentration of our largest customers, and resulted in increased pricing pressures from our customers. The continuing consolidation of our customer base may negatively affect our financial performance. We may be unable to execute our growth plans or effectively manage our expansion. We plan to grow externally by acquiring complementary businesses. We also plan to grow organically by increasing purchase commitments from existing clients and further penetrating existing markets. These expansion plans may strain our financial resources. They may also overstretch our management personnel and require us to restructure our management structure. We may be unsuccessful in the timely or cost-efficient expansion of our production capacity to meet anticipated increases in the demand for our products. Expansion projects may not be constructed within the anticipated timetable or within budget. Any material delay in completing such projects, or any substantial increase in costs or quality issues in connection with them, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, or result in a loss of business opportunities. 21 To accommodate our growth pursuant to our strategies, we will need to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and effectively manage our relationships with our customers and suppliers. We will also need to expand capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and to enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skills and the incurrence of additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our growth strategies and manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. We may require additional funding for our growth plans, and such funding may result in a dilution of your investment, limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise restrict our business operations. We attempted to estimate our funding requirements in order to implement our growth plans. Our growth plans include growth through acquisitions. Although the proceeds from the public offering closed on December 10, 2010 (the “Public Offering”) should be sufficient for us to implement our near term acquisition strategy, we may require additional capital in order to successfully operate businesses that we acquire. If the costs of implementing our growth plans, including the cost of operating businesses that we acquire, should exceed these estimates significantly, or if we come across opportunities to grow through expansion plans which cannot be predicted at this time, and funds generated from our operations prove insufficient for such purposes, we may need to raise additional funds. We may raise additional funds by issuing equity, equity-linked securities or debt securities or by borrowing from banks or other resources. We cannot ensure that we will be able to obtain any additional financing on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we fail to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, we will not be able to implement such plans fully. Even if we succeed in obtaining financing, such financing may be accompanied by conditions that limit our ability to pay dividends or require us to seek lenders' consent for payment of dividends, or restrict our freedom to operate our business by requiring lender's consent for certain corporate actions. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Covenants in certain PRC loan agreements entered into by Great Shengda and Hangzhou Shengming restrict our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which may cause disruption to our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business operations." Additional funding from debt financings may make it more difficult for us to operate our business because we would need to make principal and interest payments on the indebtedness and may be obligated to abide by restrictive covenants contained in the debt financing agreements. Further, if we raise additional funds by issuing new shares, any stockholders unable or unwilling to participate in such fund raising may suffer dilution in their investment. Our acquisition and investment in other businesses may be unsuccessful. We intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisition and investment opportunities which complement or enhance our current businesses with new product lines or expand our customer base at the appropriate time. However, we may encounter strong competition during the acquisition or investment process and we may fail to select or value targets appropriately, which may result in our experiencing difficulty in completing such acquisitions or investments at reasonable cost, or at all. Even if an acquisition or investment is successful, we may have to allocate additional capital and human resources to implement the integration of the new line of business. There is no assurance that we can successfully obtain or renew licenses or national or local government approvals for operating new lines of business or successfully integrate newly acquired businesses or do so within a reasonable period of time or that the acquired businesses will generate the expected economic benefits. One of our growth strategies is to expand our customer base by entering markets in regions outside the YRD. We may face various challenges when entering into markets in other regions. For example, we will have to understand and adjust to local business practices; the transportation infrastructure in other regions may not be as developed as the YRD, which may result in higher costs; and we may encounter difficulty in obtaining or renewing licenses and government approvals. 22 Furthermore, our experience in serving customers in the YRD may not be applicable in other parts of China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to leverage our experience in the YRD to expand into other parts of China. In our entry into new markets, we may face competition from paper packaging companies with established experience or presence in the geographical areas in which we plan to expand and from other paper packaging companies with similar expansion targets, in addition to the uncertainties discussed in the three preceding risk factors. There is no assurance that we will have similar success in regions outside the YRD. Our failure to manage any of our planned expansion or acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our certificates, permits, and licenses related to our operations are subject to governmental control and renewal, and failure to obtain or renew such certificates, permits, and licenses will cause all or part of our operations to be terminated. Our operations require licenses, permits and, in some cases, renewals of these licenses and permits from various governmental authorities in the PRC. Our ability to obtain, maintain, or renew such licenses and permits on acceptable terms is subject to change, as, among other things, the regulations and policies of applicable governmental authorities may change. Each of Great Shengda, Hangzhou Shengming and Shengda Color holds a printing license for decorative printing on packages, each valid until December 31, 2012. Suzhou AA holds a printing license for decorative printing on packages, valid until November 17, 2013. These printing licenses are renewable at the end of their terms by application to the relevant authorities. If our printing licenses are revoked or suspended or we are unable to renew a printing license for any reason, we cannot assure you that our business operations will not be stopped and, correspondingly, our financial performance would be adversely affected. Suzhou AA is in the process of obtaining various approvals, permits and licenses, including, but not limited to, project registration, an environmental impact assessment, certain environmental approvals and a pollutant discharge permit. We cannot assure you that we will be successful and timely in obtaining such approvals, licenses and permits. Failure to do so may subject us to monetary fines or other penalties, including possible suspension of Suzhou AA's operations. We depend heavily on key personnel, and loss of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our senior management and key technical personnel, including our Chairman, Nengbin Fang, and our Chief Executive Officer, Daliang Teng, both of whom have a long history with the Company. Turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team and impair our operations. If we lose a key employee, or if a key employee fails to perform in his or her current position, our business could suffer. We face competition for personnel from other companies in our industry and from other organizations. Competition for these individuals could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key employees, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the process of hiring qualified personnel is often lengthy. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategies. In addition, if any of these key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our customers. We have entered into confidentiality and non-competition agreements with all of our key personnel. However, if any disputes arise between these key personnel and us, it is not clear, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, what the court decision will be and the extent to which the court decision could be enforced in China, where all of these key personnel reside and hold most of their assets. See "—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us." Any future litigation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Although we have procured director and officer insurance ("D&O insurance"), our coverage may be insufficient and we may incur substantial sums pursuant to our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. From time to time we may be subject to litigation, including potential stockholder derivative actions. Risks associated with legal liability are difficult to assess and quantify, and their existence and magnitude can remain unknown for significant periods of time. We currently have D&O insurance to cover such risk exposure for our directors and officers. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our current and past directors and officers from reasonable expenses related to the defense of any action arising from their service to our Company. If our D&O insurance is insufficient to cover all such expenses for all directors and officers, we would be obligated to cover any shortfall, which may be substantial. Such expenditure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. Further, if D&O insurance becomes prohibitively expensive to maintain in the future, we may consider not to renew such insurance. The lack of D&O insurance may make it difficult for us to retain and attract talented and skilled directors and officers to serve our Company, which could adversely affect our business. 23 We may be unable to adequately safeguard our intellectual property or we may face claims that may be costly to resolve or that limit our ability to use such intellectual property in the future. Our business is materially dependent on our intellectual property. Our technical know-how is the result of our research and development efforts, which we believe to be proprietary and unique. We have obtained nine patents of utility models and have applied for a tenth patent. We cannot, however, assure you that we will be able to prevent third parties from infringing our intellectual property rights and utilize our patented technology. Further, third parties may assert infringement claims against us with respect to our intellectual property or attempt to invalidate our patents; we cannot assure you that such claims will not be successful. Even if we succeed in establishing or protecting our intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs and divert significant management resources in enforcing our right or defending any claims. If any party succeeds in asserting a claim against us relating to a disputed intellectual property, we may need to obtain licenses to continue to use the relevant design or technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could cause our business results to suffer. We rely upon a combination of trade secrets, non-disclosure and other contractual agreements with our employees, as well as limitation of access to and distribution of our intellectual property, in our efforts to protect intellectual property. However, our efforts in this regard may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information or we may be unable to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, and there can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will be successful. If litigation is necessary to safeguard our intellectual property rights, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of our resources, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or future prospects. Infringement of our Shengda trademark may hurt our business. Our Shengda trademark is protected through trademark registration in the PRC. Although we do not use the trademark on the cartons we produce, which usually have the trademarks or brand-names of our customers, we have built a significant amount of goodwill around our Shengda trademark among our customers and in the industry. If third parties infringe upon our Shengda trademark by unlawfully passing off their products as our products or imitating or using our Shengda trademark, we may face considerable difficulties and costly litigation in order to fully protect our rights in the trademark. An even more serious consequence may be damage to our reputation as a manufacturer of quality products. Our brand, reputation and sales volume may be materially and adversely affected by an infringement of our trademark. Our facilities and inventory may be affected by fire or natural calamities. Our operations are also subject to the risk of power outage, equipment failure or labor disturbances and other business interruptions. We have limited insurance coverage and do not carry any business interruption insurance. A fire, flood or other natural calamity may result in significant damage to our production facilities and inventory. Our operations are subject to risks of various business interruptions, including power outage, equipment failure or disturbances that may result from labor unrest. If we are unable to obtain timely replacements of damaged inventory or equipment, or if we are unable to find an acceptable contract manufacturer in the event our production facilities are damaged by a catastrophic event, then major disruptions to our production could have a significant adverse effect on our operations and financial results. For example, it would take us about four months to replace our German BHS2800 paperboard production line if that line were significantly damaged. During that time, our production would be significantly hampered and our revenues would diminish significantly. Also, our property insurance may not be sufficient to cover damages to our production facilities, and we do not carry any business interruption insurance covering lost profits as a result of the disruption to our production. We have limited insurance coverage and do not carry any third-party liability insurance or insurance that covers the risk of loss of our products in shipment. If any of our products are defective, then we may be subject to product liability claims or we may have to engage in a product recall. Our employees or independent third parties may suffer injury from accidents at our facilities. We do not carry any product liability insurance with respect to our products or third-party liability insurance to cover claims pertaining to personal injury or property or environmental damages arising from defects in our products, product recalls or accidents on our property. We only have limited insurance coverage for property and machinery damage. Our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all the risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Furthermore, under the shipping terms of some of our customer contracts, we bear the risk of loss in the shipment of our products. We do not insure this risk. While we believe that the transportation companies that we use carry adequate insurance or are sufficiently solvent to cover any loss in shipment, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately reimbursed upon the loss of a significant amount of our products. Aside from impairing our financial performance, any slowdown or interruption in our production processes could negatively affect our brand. We manufacture or assemble our products at our facilities in Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China. Our manufacturing operations are complicated and integrated, involving the coordination of raw materials sourced from third parties, internal production processes and external distribution processes. While these operations are modified on a regular basis to improve manufacturing and distribution efficiency and flexibility, we may experience difficulties in coordinating the various aspects of our manufacturing processes, thereby causing downtime and delays. We have also been steadily increasing our production capacity. However, we may not be able to obtain enough resources in time to operate our facilities at the same or higher capacity and to increase our production volume. Any interruptions in our production could result in our inability to produce our products, which would reduce our sales revenue and earnings for the affected period. If there is a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or delays in delivery times to our customers, our business and reputation could be severely affected. Any significant delays in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause us to lose future sales. We currently do not have business interruption insurance to offset these potential losses, delays and risks so a material interruption of our business operations could severely damage our business. Inability to maintain our competitiveness would adversely affect our financial performance. We operate in a competitive environment and face competition from existing competitors and new market entrants. Companies in our industry compete with each other on quality of products, production capacity, pricing, brand name, timely delivery and customer service. Some of our competitors are large, vertically integrated companies that have greater financial and other resources and greater manufacturing economics of scale, compared to our company. Competition in the products we manufacture could increase if our competitors begin to price their products more attractively in order to gain market share, or develop or acquire technology to reduce their cost of production. Furthermore, our industry is currently very fragmented, with a large number of small manufacturers serving local customers. Although this provides opportunities for us to grow externally, other competitors may have the same growth strategy and may be able to execute their growth strategy more speedily than we can, thereby gaining market share at our expense. There is no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future. Any failure by us to remain competitive would adversely affect our financial performance. We became a public company by means of a reverse merger with a public shell company, and as a result we are subject to the risks associated with the prior activities of the public company. Additional risks may exist because we became public through a reverse merger with a public shell company that did not have significant operations or assets prior to the time of the reverse merger. Prior to April 8, 2010, the date that we completed the reverse acquisition of Evercharm, our corporate name was Healthplace Corporation. When we operated as Healthplace Corporation through the date of the reverse acquisition, we were a public shell company, and our business plan was to become a web-based service provider offering an online service where health practitioners (such as chiropractors, dentists, massage therapists, occupational therapists and counselors) could purchase products and services to improve their work and home lives, including books, CDs, clothing, and accessories geared towards the needs of these practitioners. As a shell company we had no significant business operations and generated nominal revenues. We may require the cooperation or assistance of persons or organizations, such as auditors, previously associated with the public shell company to resolve future matters relating to the business and operations of the shell company that could be costly or difficult to secure. In addition, we may be exposed to undisclosed liabilities and incur losses, damages or other costs as a result of the prior operations of the shell company. 25 We are exposed to credit risks of our customers. Our financial position, profitability and cash flows are dependent to a large extent on the creditworthiness of our customers and their ability to pay us on a timely basis. We have strict internal control over sales and collection of receivables. Our sales managers assess the background, reputation and liquidity of potential customers before granting credit, and the sales managers and sales directors analyze, on a monthly basis, receivables balances and aging of customer accounts. Most of our customers are Fortune 500 companies or the top 500 Chinese companies and maintain good credit with their suppliers. Nevertheless, if there is deterioration in the creditworthiness of our customers, our profitability and cash flows will be adversely affected. We typically grant our customers credit periods ranging from 60 to 90 days. For 2008, 2009 and 2010, our accounts receivable turnover days were 59 days, 71 days and 70 days, respectively. We have strict internal control on collection of receivables, but receivable turnover days increased in 2008 and 2009 because we granted longer credit terms to our customers in order to maintain and develop sales levels during the global financial crisis that started in the summer of 2008. If any future event derails the economic growth in China or undermines the confidence in or puts further strains on the world financial system, we may have to extend longer credit periods or our customers may become less creditworthy, which may materially adversely affect our financial condition. Certain of our existing stockholders have substantial influence over our company, and their interests may not be aligned with the interests of our other stockholders. Wuxiao Fang, his son, Nengbin Fang, and his daughter, Congyi Fang, together currently own approximately 51.84% of our common stock. As a result, they have significant influence over our business, including decisions regarding mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions, while their interest may not always align with the interest of other stockholders. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a future change of control, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our shares. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to develop or maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial statements, which would harm the trading price of our common stock. Companies that file reports with the SEC, including us, are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404. SOX 404 requires management to establish and maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting and annual reports on Form 10-K filed under the Exchange Act to contain a report from management assessing the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. Separately, under SOX 404, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, public companies that are large accelerated or accelerated filers must include in their annual reports on Form 10-K an attestation report of their regular auditors attesting to and reporting on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Non-accelerated filers and smaller reporting companies are not required to include an attestation report of their auditors in annual reports. A report of our management is included under Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this report. We are a non-accelerated filer and, consequently, are not required to include an attestation report of our auditor in this annual report. However, we may become an accelerated filer in the future and, accordingly, may required to include an attestation report of our auditors in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year in which we cease to be a non-accelerated filer. We have taken several measures to improve our internal control over financial reporting after the reverse acquisition, such as hiring additional staff with knowledge of U.S. GAAP and reporting experience with the SEC. However, if and when we become subject to the auditor attestation requirements under SOX 404, we can provide no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. 26 See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Internal Control over Financial Reporting" for more information. Environmental compliance and remediation could result in substantially increased capital requirements and operating costs, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to PRC laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations applicable to our operations. If we are found liable for violation of environmental regulations, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected and our permits and licenses may be suspended or revoked by Chinese regulatory authorities. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, some of which are corrosive and flammable. If we are found liable for contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harm related to our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We use, handle, store and dispose of hazardous materials in our operations; therefore, we are required to maintain necessary filings with the local competent authority and Great Shengda, Shengda Color and Hangzhou Shengming have made such filings with the local safety supervision authority as required by law. However, any future failure to maintain or update effective filings with the local safety supervision authority may subject us to monetary fines or suspension or revocation of licenses or permits. In addition, in operating our business we use and store certain materials that may be regarded as occupational hazards. Therefore, we are also required to maintain necessary filings with the local hygiene authority for use and storage of those occupational hazardous materials. Great Shengda, Shengda Color and Hangzhou Shengming have made filings with the local hygiene authority for use of xylene in our production. However, any failure to maintain or update effective filings with the local hygiene authority may subject us to monetary fines or orders to cease operation at our manufacturing facilities. We cannot completely eliminate the risks of contamination, injury to employees or others, or other harms related to our use, handling, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. Although we have not experienced incidents in the past, there can be no assurance that we will not experience fires, leakages and other accidents. In the event of future incidents, we could be liable for any damages that may result, including potentially significant monetary damages for any civil litigation or government proceedings related to a personal injury claim, as well as fines, penalties and other consequences, including suspension or revocation of our licenses or permits, suspension of production, and cessation of operations at our manufacturing facilities, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we currently do not carry any insurance coverage for potential liabilities relating to the release of hazardous materials. Our holding company structure may limit the payment of dividends. We have no direct business operations, other than our ownership of our subsidiaries. While we have no current intention of paying dividends, should we decide in the future to do so, as a holding company, our ability to pay dividends and meet other obligations depends upon the receipt of dividends or other payments from our operating subsidiaries and other holdings and investments. In addition, our operating subsidiaries, from time to time, may be subject to restrictions on their ability to make distributions to us, including as a result of restrictive covenants in debt financing agreements, restrictions on the conversion of local currency into U.S. dollars or other hard currency and other regulatory restrictions as discussed below. If future dividends are paid in RMB, fluctuations in the exchange rate for the conversion of RMB into U.S. dollars may reduce the amount received by U.S. stockholders upon conversion of the dividend payment into U.S. dollars. Chinese regulations currently permit the payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries in China are also required to set aside a portion of their after tax profits according to Chinese accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds. Currently, our subsidiaries in China are the only sources of revenues or investment holdings for the payment of dividends. If they do not accumulate sufficient profits under Chinese accounting standards and regulations to first fund certain reserve funds as required by Chinese accounting standards, we will be unable to pay any dividends. 27 RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China's political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: Level of government involvement in the economy; Control of foreign exchange; Methods of allocating resources; Balance of payments position; International trade restrictions; and International conflict. For example, in November 2008 the Chinese government announced an economic stimulus package in the amount of approximately $586 billion. It is uncertain whether the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus packages adopted by the Chinese government will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy in the long term. Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, it still differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy, and weak corporate governance and the lack of a flexible currency exchange policy still prevail in China. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy was similar to those of the OECD member countries. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to evolve rapidly, the interpretations of many laws, regulations, and rules are not always uniform, and enforcement of these laws, regulations, and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us or our directors and officers. Most of our assets are located outside of the United States and most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Our counsel as to PRC law has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security, or the public interest. Therefore, it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. 28 The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Our legal right to certain leased properties could be challenged by governmental authorities or third parties due to our lessors' lack of proper land use rights or building ownership over such properties and mortgages on those properties. We do not own the land or any building on which our production facilities are located. Instead, we lease land and buildings from related parties and a third party. Our lessors are required to comply with various land- and property-related laws and regulations to enable them to lease their properties for industrial use. For example, properties used for productive entities and the underlying land should be approved for industrial use purposes by competent governmental authorities and should have appropriate building ownership certificates. In addition, before any properties located on land owned by collective organizations may be leased to third parties, lessors are required to obtain appropriate approvals from the competent governmental authorities. We lease a parcel of land of approximately 3,328 square meters from Heshang Town Xiangheqiao Village Economic Cooperative, but we were not provided with the land use right certificate in respect of the leased land or any other evidence issued by the proper and competent authority showing that Heshang Town Xiangheqiao Village Economic Cooperative has obtained appropriate approvals to lease the land use rights to us. This failure may subject the lessor or us to monetary fines or other penalties and may lead to the invalidation or termination of our lease by the competent governmental authorities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to operate our manufacturing business. While Heshang Town Xiangheqiao Village Economic Cooperative has agreed to indemnify us against any loss incurred by us related to the title or nature of the use of this land, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce the indemnity of the lessor. As a result, we may suffer losses resulting from the lessor's failure to obtain the required approvals to the extent that we could not be fully indemnified by the lessor. We lease buildings with a total area of approximately 23,568 square meters from SD Group, which does not hold any building ownership certificates related to these buildings. We were informed that SD Group is applying for building ownership certificates for those buildings. We also lease the buildings with total area of approximately 63,536 square meters from Hangzhou Xin Shengda Investment Co. Ltd., or Xin Shengda. Xin Shengda only has building ownership certificates covering approximately 53,180 square meters of the leased buildings. Xin Shengda has advised us that it is applying for building ownership certificates for the remaining areas. However, there can be no assurance that these two lessors will successfully obtain the requisite building ownership certificates. As a result, we cannot assure you that our rights under those leases will not be challenged by competent governmental authorities. Any challenge to our legal rights to the properties under the leases used for our manufacturing operations, if successful, could impair or adversely affect our business and operations on those properties. The buildings we lease from Xin Shengda are also subject to a mortgage. Xin Shengda did not obtain the required consent to the lease from the mortgagee. As a result, the lease may not be binding on the mortgagee or a transferee who acquires the property upon any foreclosure under the mortgage. While Xin Shengda, as the lessor, has agreed to indemnify us for any loss incurred as a result of the mortgagee's foreclosure on the mortgage, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully enforce the lessor's indemnity to the full extent. As a result, we may suffer losses to the extent we are not fully indemnified by the lessor. Under PRC laws, all lease agreements are required to be registered with the local housing bureau. We have registered the leases for an aggregate building area of approximately 105,400 square meters, while the rest have not been registered. This may expose both our lessors and our subsidiaries to potential monetary fines. Some of our rights under the unregistered leases may also be subordinated to the rights of third parties. 29 Covenants in certain PRC loan agreements entered into by Great Shengda and Hangzhou Shengming restrict our ability to engage in or enter into a variety of transactions, which may cause disruption to our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Great Shengda and Hangzhou Shengming have entered into loan agreements with banks in the PRC which contain various covenants that may limit our discretion in operating the business of our subsidiaries. Our lenders have rights that include those that: restrict us during the term of the loan from undertaking any shareholding change or restructuring without obtaining prior approval of the lender; restrict us from undertaking mergers and acquisitions or any other joint venture arrangement without prior approval of the lender; restrict us from undertaking withdraw of capital, asset transfer, or equity transfer; restrict us from undertaking major investment, asset transfer, leasing, pledging or mortgaging its assets without obtaining prior approval of the lender; and restrict the distribution of dividends if after tax profit for a particular fiscal year (1) equals nil or less; (2) is insufficient to offset a deficit of prior years; or (3) is insufficient to pay off principal and interest due during the fiscal year. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the lenders' approval for these transactions. These restrictions on our business may cause disruption in our business operations. Our lenders may restrict us from disposing of or restructuring the ownership of our operating facilities and limit our ability to undertake any acquisition or major investment. Even if we fail to obtain their approval for any such transaction, we must give timely notice of the transaction. In the event of such technical breach, the lender may have the right to rescind the loan, which would materially and adversely affect our operations, future prospects and results of operations. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, China Packaging or Evercharm may be classified as a "resident enterprise" of China. Such classification would likely subject China Packaging or Evercharm and our non-PRC stockholders to different tax treatment by the PRC tax authorities. Under China's Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, or collectively the EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of China with "de facto management bodies" within China is considered a "resident enterprise." That means the enterprise can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules define de facto management bodies as having "substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties" of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, which became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law to non-Chinese enterprise or group-controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a "non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise" if (1) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (2) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (3) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and stockholder minutes are kept in China; and (4) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often reside in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must withhold a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC stockholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. No detailed measures on imposition of tax on non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. If an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person were regarded as equivalent to a Chinese enterprise or group by Chinese tax authorities, China Packaging or Evercharm may be deemed by relevant tax authorities to be a resident enterprise for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. If the PRC tax authorities determined that China Packaging or Evercharm were a "resident enterprise," China Packaging or Evercharm may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on its worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%, adjustable in accordance with any available tax treaties between China and the resident countries. Under the EIT Law, dividends paid to "resident enterprise" from Chinese subsidiaries would qualify as "tax-exempt income," but dividends paid by the "resident enterprise" in turn to non-PRC stockholders may be subject to a 10% withholding tax. However, the PRC tax authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new "resident enterprise" classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends China Packaging pays to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of "resident enterprise" treatment for the 2010 tax year. 30 In the future, if China Packaging is treated as a "resident enterprise" by PRC tax authorities, China Packaging will be subject to taxation in both the United States and China, and its PRC tax may not be creditable against its U.S. tax. The termination and expiration or unavailability of preferential tax treatments once available to us may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Prior to January 1, 2008, entities established in China were generally subject to a 30% state and 3% local enterprise income tax rate. However, entities that satisfied certain conditions enjoyed preferential tax treatment. In accordance with PRC Income Tax Law for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises which was effective until December 31, 2007, both Great Shengda and Hangzhou Shengming enjoyed preferential income tax rates. Effective on January 1, 2008, the new EIT Law imposes a single uniform income tax rate of 25% on all Chinese enterprises, including foreign-invested enterprises, and eliminates or modifies most of the tax exemptions, reductions and preferential treatment available under the previous tax laws and regulations. The preferential tax treatment enjoyed by Hangzhou Shengming will end at the end of 2011. As a result, the tax rate applicable to Hangzhou Shengming will increase from 12.5% to 25% in 2012. The expiration and termination of such preferential tax treatment may have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and operating results in 2012. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 5.9% and as low as -0.8% . That has led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and result in a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenue effectively. The majority of our sales are settled in RMB, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The exchange rate of the RMB is currently managed by the Chinese government. On July 21, 2005, the People's Bank of China, or the People's Bank, with the authorization of the State Council of the PRC, announced that the RMB exchange rate would no longer be pegged to the U.S. Dollar and would float based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. According to public reports, the governor of the People's Bank has stated that the basket is composed mainly of the U.S. Dollar, the European Union Euro, the Japanese Yen and the South Korean Won. Also considered, but playing smaller roles, are the currencies of Singapore, the United Kingdom, Malaysia, Russia, Australia, Canada and Thailand. The weight of each currency within the basket has not been announced. The initial adjustment of the RMB exchange rate was an approximate 2% revaluation from an exchange rate of RMB 8.28 per U.S. Dollar to RMB 8.11 per U.S. Dollar. The People's Bank also announced that the daily trading price of the U.S. Dollar against the RMB in the inter-bank foreign exchange market would be allowed to float within a band of 0.3% around the central parity published by the People's Bank, while the trading prices of the non-U.S. Dollar currencies against the RMB would be allowed to move within a certain band announced by the People's Bank. The People's Bank has stated that it will make adjustments of the RMB exchange rate band when necessary according to market developments as well as the economic and financial situation. In a later announcement published on May 18, 2007, the band was extended to 0.5% . Since July 2008, the RMB has traded at RMB 6.83 per U.S. Dollar. Recent reports indicate an upward revaluation in the value of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar may be allowed. The People's Bank announced on June 19, 2010 its intention to allow the RMB to move more freely against the basket of currencies, which increases the possibility of sharp fluctuations in the value of the RMB in the near future and thus the unpredictability associated with the RMB exchange rate. 31 Despite this change in their exchange rate regime, the Chinese government continues to manage the valuation of the RMB. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars, as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our stockholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to sanction under PRC laws. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including Circular 75 issued in October 2005 and its implementation rules issued in May 2007, requiring PRC residents, including both legal entities and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of the PRC, referred to as an offshore special purpose company, for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire assets of, or equity interests in, PRC companies. Circular 75 applies retroactively. PRC residents who have established or acquired control of the special purpose vehicles which have completed a "round-trip investment" before the implementation of Circular 75 are required to register their ownership interests or control in such special purpose vehicles with the local offices of SAFE. Under Circular 75, a special purpose vehicle refers to an offshore entity established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by PRC residents or PRC entities for the purpose of seeking offshore equity financing using assets or interests owned by such PRC residents or PRC entities in onshore companies, and "round trip investment" refers to the direct investment in China by PRC residents through the special purpose vehicles, including establishing foreign invested enterprises and using such foreign invested enterprises to purchase or control (by way of contractual arrangements) onshore assets. In addition, any PRC resident that is the stockholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend his or her SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any of its increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC resident who holds stock in an SPV fails to make the required SAFE registration and make any amended registration, the onshore PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore SPV. Failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment registration requirements described above could result in liability for evading PRC laws applicable to foreign exchange restrictions. We attempt to comply, and attempt to ensure that our stockholders and beneficial owners of our shares who are subject to these rules comply, with the relevant requirements. Wuxiao Fang, Nengbin Fang and Congyi Fang, who are PRC residents and our stockholders, each has made SAFE 75 filings regarding his or her shareholding in China Packaging, Evercharm, Shengda Holdings and Wealthcharm Investments Limited with the Zhejiang Provincial Branch of SAFE. However, we recently completed the acquisition of 25% equity interests in Shengming by Evercharm. The change of equity investment by Evercharm is yet to be filed to perfect the SAFE 75 filings of Wuxiao Fang, Nengbin Fang and Congyi Fang. We will file such change with Zhejiang Provincial Branch of SAFE as soon as practicable. We have requested our other stockholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings as required under these regulations and under any implementing rules or approval practices that may be established under these regulations. However, as a result of the vagueness of these regulations and implementing rules, it remains unclear how these regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by SAFE and its local branch. Furthermore, there is a risk that not all of our stockholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will in the future comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registration or approvals. 32 Any failure by any of our stockholders or beneficial owners of our shares who are PRC domestic residents to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our relevant subsidiary's ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in China. Failure to comply with the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules relating to the overseas direct investment or the engagement in the issuance or trading of securities overseas by our PRC resident stockholders may subject such stockholders to fines or other liabilities. Other than Circular 75, our ability to conduct foreign exchange activities in the PRC may be subject to the interpretation and enforcement of the Implementation Rules of the Administrative Measures for Individual Foreign Exchange promulgated by the People’s Bank of China in January 2007 (as amended and supplemented, the “Individual Foreign Exchange Rules”). Under the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules, any PRC individual seeking to make a direct investment overseas or engage in the issuance or trading of negotiable securities or derivatives overseas must make the appropriate registrations in accordance with SAFE provisions. PRC individuals who fail to make such registrations may be subject to warnings, fines or other liabilities. We may not be fully informed of the identities of all our beneficial owners who are PRC residents. For example, because the investment in or trading of our shares will happen in an overseas public or secondary market where shares are often held with brokers in brokerage accounts, it is unlikely that we will know the identity of all of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents. Furthermore, we have no control over any of our beneficial owners. We have asked our beneficial owners to apply to their local branch of SAFE to register in accordance with the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules. These applications have not yet been approved and we cannot assure you that such PRC residents will be able to complete the necessary approval and registration procedures required by the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules. It is uncertain how the Individual Foreign Exchange Rules will be interpreted or enforced and whether such interpretation or enforcement will affect our ability to conduct foreign exchange transactions. Because of this uncertainty, we cannot be sure whether the failure by any of our PRC resident stockholders to make the required registration will subject our PRC subsidiaries to fines or legal sanctions on their operations, delay or restriction on repatriation of proceeds of this offering into the PRC, restriction on remittance of dividends or other punitive actions that would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the PRC. While we have certain internal procedures in our budgeting, forecasting, and management and allocation of funds, our internal controls may not be adequate. China historically did not have Western-style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as modern banking, computer and other control systems. Our operations, being based in China, may experience difficulties in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. We may also have difficulties in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to implement and maintain such internal control systems. We strive to improve our internal controls and disclosure controls. We hope to develop an adequate internal accounting control to budget, forecast and manage our funds, and an adequate disclosure control that will enable us to disclose material events affecting our operations and prospects on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that these improvements will be adequate or successful, or be carried out on a timely basis. If we do not have adequate internal accounting controls, we may not be able to appropriately budget, forecast and manage our funds, or prepare accurate accounts on a timely basis to meet our continuing financial reporting obligations and satisfy our obligations under United States securities laws to maintain internal control over financial reporting and disclosure control over material information. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Chinese anti-corruption laws. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. The PRC also strictly prohibits bribery of government officials. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time to time in China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from some companies and gain an advantage in securing business, or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, thus putting us at a disadvantage. Our employees, agents, representatives and consultants may not always be subject to our control. If any of them violates the FCPA or other anti-corruption laws, we might be held responsible, and we could be subject to severe penalties as a result. In addition, the U.S. government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability for FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or which we acquire. 33 PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit our ability to use the proceeds of the Public Offering to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC operating businesses. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore company, make to our PRC operating businesses are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our PRC operating businesses cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment our PRC operating businesses are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and their respective registered capital, and must be registered with the local branch of SAFE as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to our PRC operating businesses must be approved by the NDRC and MOFCOM or their local counterpart and registered with the SAIC or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our PRC operating businesses or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect their liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. Furthermore, SAFE promulgated Circular 142 in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contribution of foreign invested enterprises into RMB. Pursuant to Circular 142, RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contribution can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investment or acquisition unless otherwise allowed by PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may not be able to increase the capital contribution of our operating subsidiaries or equity investee and subsequently convert such capital contribution into RMB for equity investment or acquisition in China. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval was required in connection with our listing and any public offering overseas, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the 2006 M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The 2006 M&A Rule, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs, CSRC's approval is not required for our overseas listing and any future offerings given the fact that (i) Great Shengda, a foreign-invested enterprise, was established by Evercharm before the 2006 M&A Rule became effective; and (ii) we were not, and are not, an SPV as defined in the 2006 M&A Rule. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval was required for our overseas listing and any future offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and other penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the injection of proceeds from an offering into our PRC subsidiaries, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. 34 We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations encompassed in the 2006 M&A Rule. The 2006 M&A Rule, as amended on June 22, 2009, also governs the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of assets or equity interests. Depending on the structure of the transaction, the 2006 M&A Rule will require the parties to the transaction to make a series of applications to certain government agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. Compliance with the 2006 M&A Rule is likely to be more time consuming and expensive than in the past, and the government can now exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to the 2006 M&A Rule, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The 2006 M&A Rule allows Chinese government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant government agencies an appraisal report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The 2006 M&A Rule also prohibits a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and, in certain transaction structures, requires that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The 2006 M&A Rule also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, the 2006 M&A Rule may impede our implementation of our growth strategy. We face uncertainty from the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises' Share Transfer released in December 2009 by China's State Administration of Taxation, effective as of January 1, 2008. Pursuant to the Notice on Strengthening Administration of Enterprise Income Tax for Share Transfers by Non-PRC Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, issued by the State Administration of Taxation on December 10, 2009, where a foreign investor transfers the equity interests of a PRC resident enterprise indirectly via disposing of the equity interests of an overseas holding company, or Indirect Transfer, and such overseas holding company is located in a tax jurisdiction that: (1) has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or (2) does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor shall report to the competent tax authority of the PRC resident enterprise this Indirect Transfer. The PRC tax authority will examine the true nature of the Indirect Transfer, and if the tax authority considers that the foreign investor has adopted an abusive arrangement in order to avoid PRC tax, they will disregard the existence of the overseas holding company and re-characterize the Indirect Transfer and as a result, gains derived from such Indirect Transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at the rate of up to 10%. Circular 698 also provides that, where a non-PRC resident enterprise transfers its equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise to its related parties at a price lower than the fair market value, the competent tax authority has the power to make a reasonable adjustment to the taxable income of the transaction. Since Circular 698 came into force on December 10, 2009, we cannot assure you our reorganization will not be subject to examination by the PRC Subsidiaries' tax authorities and any direct or indirect transfer of our equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries via our overseas holding companies will not be subject to a withholding tax of 10%. The new provisions of the PRC Employment Contract Law may substantially increase our labor-related costs in the future. The PRC Employment Contract Law, which became effective as of January 1, 2008, contains many more provisions favorable to employees than prior labor regulations in effect in China. This may substantially increase our labor-related costs in our future operations. According to the new law, an employee is entitled to terminate his or her employment relationship with his or her employer for certain causes, such as delay in payment of wages or social insurance contribution or dissatisfactory labor protection, and under such circumstances the employer is liable to pay compensation to the employee. The amount of such compensation payment shall be one month's salary for each year that the employee has served the employer. If the monthly wage of an employee is three times greater than the average monthly wage in the previous year for employees as announced by the people's government at the municipal level directly under the central government or at the city with district level authority where the employer is located, the rate for the financial compensation paid to him shall be three times the average monthly wage of employees and shall be for not more than 12 years of work. In contrast to at-will employment arrangements, most employment arrangements in China are for a fixed term. An employer may also be liable to compensate an employee when the employer decides to terminate an existing employment before its expiration. In addition, if the labor market tightens in China or in the YRD, our labor costs may experience further increase. 35 Our failure to fully comply with PRC labor laws exposes us to potential liability. Companies operating in China must comply with a variety of labor laws, including social insurance, housing fund and other employee welfare payment obligations. Uncertainties exist as to the interpretation, implementation and enforcement of these obligations. We believe we have paid all necessary social insurance contributions for all the employees of Great Shengda, Shengda Color and Hangzhou Shengming in accordance with applicable law. Further, we intend to pay all relevant social insurance contributions for all the employees of Suzhou AA, which recently obtained its social insurance registration certificate, in accordance with applicable law. However, if relevant governmental authorities determine that we have not complied fully with these obligations, we may be in violation of applicable PRC labor laws and we cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will not impose penalties on us for our failure to comply with these regulations. In addition, if any current or former employee files a complaint with the relevant governmental authorities, we may be subject to fulfilling employee welfare obligations as well as paying administrative fines. Currently, we do not pay housing fund for our employees as required under the PRC law. The local Xiaoshan housing fund authority issued a certification to us on July 6, 2010, which certifies that the housing fund system is not fully implemented in Xiaoshan district, that the local Xiaoshan housing fund authority will extend the housing fund system to us in the near future and that the local Xiaoshan housing fund authority will not require us to fulfill our past housing fund contribution obligations retroactively. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be challenged by our employees for failure to pay housing fund as required by law and that we will not be punished by the local housing fund authority in the future. We face risks related to health epidemics. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the United States and China. China is a populous country and is susceptible to outbreaks of major epidemics. In the last decade, China has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our manufacturing facilities, our suppliers' facilities or our customers' facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY Future sales or perceived sales of our common stock could depress our stock price. Our executive officers and directors and one 5% stockholder have agreed not to sell shares of our common stock for a period of 360 days after the Public Offering, and certain stockholders have agreed not to sell their shares of our common stock for a period of 180 days, following the Public Offering, subject to extension under specified circumstances at the option of the underwriters. Shares of common stock subject to these lock-up agreements will become eligible for sale in the public market upon expiration of these lock-up agreements, subject to limitations imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. A substantial number of shares of our common stock held by our current stockholders are freely tradable. If the holders of these shares were to attempt to sell a substantial amount of their holdings at once, the market price of our common stock could decline. Moreover, the perceived risk of the potential dilution of this offering could cause stockholders to attempt to sell their shares and investors to short the stock, a practice in which an investor sells shares that he or she does not own at prevailing market prices, hoping to purchase shares later at a lower price to cover the sale. As each of these events would cause the number of shares of our common stock being offered for sale to increase, our common stock's market price would likely further decline. All of these events could combine to make it very difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Our common stock is subject to price volatility related and unrelated to our operations. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including market perception of our ability to achieve our planned growth, quarterly operating results of other companies in the same industry, trading volume in our common stock, changes in general conditions in the economy and the financial markets or other developments affecting our competitors or us. In addition, the stock market is subject to extreme price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market price of securities issued by many companies for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and could have the same effect on our common stock. 36 Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Global Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. The listing standards of The NASDAQ Global Market provide that a company, in order to qualify for continued listing, must maintain a minimum stock price, satisfy standards relative to minimum stockholders' equity, minimum market value of publicly held shares and various additional requirements. If we fail to comply with all listing standards applicable to issuers listed on The NASDAQ Global Market, our common stock may be delisted. If our common stock is delisted, it could reduce the price of our common stock and the levels of liquidity available to our stockholders. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect our access to the capital markets and any limitation on liquidity or reduction in the price of our common stock could materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market could also result in other negative consequences, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers, customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called "penny stocks" to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock were delisted and became a "penny stock," we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers. For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser's written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws or Nevada law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of the common stock. Our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by our board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Nevada corporate law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain other provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company or changes in its management that our stockholders may deem advantageous. These provisions: deny holders of our common stock cumulative voting rights in the election of directors, meaning that stockholders owning a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock will be able to elect all of our directors; 37 require any stockholder wishing to properly bring a matter before a meeting of stockholders to comply with specified procedural and advance notice requirements; and allow any vacancy on the board of directors, however the vacancy occurs, to be filled by the directors. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business in the foreseeable future, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 