Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks. Set forth below are certain of the more important risks that we face and that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results. These risks are not the only ones that we face. Our business also could be affected by additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe are immaterial to our business. We have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers. Increases in our costs or decreases in coated or supercalendered paper prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings are sensitive to price changes in coated or supercalendered paper. Fluctuations in paper prices (and coated paper prices in particular) historically have had a direct effect on our net income (loss) and EBITDA for several reasons: · Market prices for paper products are a function of supply and demand, factors over which we have limited control. We therefore have limited ability to control the pricing of our products. Market prices of grade No. 3, 60 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated freesheet paper pricing, have fluctuated since 2000 from a high of $1,100 per ton to a low of $705 per ton. In addition, market prices of grade No. 5, 34 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated groundwood paper pricing, have fluctuated between a high of $1,120 per ton to a low of $795 per ton over the same period. Because market conditions determine the price of our paper products, the price for our products could fall below our cash production costs. · Market prices for paper products typically are not directly affected by raw material costs or other costs of sales, and consequently we have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers absent increases in the market price. In addition, a significant portion of our sales are pursuant to contracts that limit price increases. Thus, even though our costs may increase, we may not have the ability to increase the prices for our products, or the prices for our products may decline. · The manufacturing of coated paper is highly capital-intensive and a large portion of our operating costs are fixed. Additionally, paper machines are large, complex machines that operate more efficiently when operated continuously. Consequently, both we and our competitors typically continue to run our machines whenever marginal sales exceed the marginal costs, adversely impacting prices at times of lower demand. Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on (1) managing our cost structure, (2) managing changes in raw materials prices, which represent a large component of our operating costs and fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control and (3) general conditions in the paper market. If the prices of our products decline, or if our raw material costs increase, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The paper industry is cyclical. Fluctuations in supply and demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The paper industry is a commodity market to a significant extent and is subject to cyclical market pressures. North American demand for coated and supercalendered paper products tends to decline during a weak U.S. economy. Accordingly, general economic conditions and demand for magazines and catalogs may have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, currency fluctuations can have a significant impact on the supply of coated paper products in North America. If the U.S. dollar strengthens, imports may increase, which would cause the supply of paper products available in the North American market to increase. Foreign overcapacity also could result in an increase in the supply of paper products available in the North American market. An increased supply of paper available in North America could put downward pressure on prices and/or cause us to lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies expected to continue throughout 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the global housing and mortgage markets have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. These factors have led to a decrease in spending by businesses and consumers alike, and a corresponding decrease in demand for our products. (See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Selected Factors that Affect Our Operating Results”). Continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economies and prolonged declines in business consumer spending may further adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history as a separate company. Accordingly, our Predecessor's combined historical financial data may not be representative of our results as a separate company. We operated as a division of International Paper prior to the Acquisition. Therefore, we have a very limited operating history as a separate company. Our business strategy as an independent entity may not be successful on a long-term basis. Although International Paper, after the completion of the Acquisition, generally no longer sells coated or supercalendered paper, we cannot assure you that our customers will continue to do business with us on the same terms as when we were a division of International Paper or at all. We may not be able to grow our business as planned and may not remain a profitable business. In addition, the historical combined financial data included in this annual report may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been a separate independent entity pursuing our own strategies during the periods presented. Our limited operating history as a separate entity makes evaluating our business and our future financial prospects difficult. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may differ materially from our expectations based on the historical financial data contained in this annual report. Our cost structure following the Acquisition is not comparable to the cost structure that we experienced in prior periods. Our management has limited experience managing our business as a separate company with a significant amount of indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our cost structure in future periods will be consistent with our current expectations or will permit us to operate our business profitably. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. Our business is highly competitive. Competition is based largely on price. We compete with foreign producers, some of which are lower cost producers than we are or are subsidized by governments. We also face competition from numerous North American coated and supercalendered paper manufacturers. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and fewer environmental and governmental regulations to comply with than we do. Furthermore, some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do or may be better positioned than we are to compete for certain opportunities. Our non-U.S. competitors may develop a competitive advantage over us and other U.S. producers if the U.S. dollar strengthens in comparison to the home currency of those competitors or ocean shipping rates decrease. If the U.S. dollar strengthens, if shipping rates decrease or if overseas supply exceeds demand, imports may increase, which would cause the supply of coated paper products available in the North American market to increase. An increased supply of coated paper could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 In addition, the following factors will affect our ability to compete: · product availability; · the quality of our products; · our breadth of product offerings; · our ability to maintain plant efficiencies and high operating rates; · manufacturing costs per ton; · customer service and our ability to distribute our products on time; and · the availability and/or cost of wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy and other raw materials and labor. If we are unable to obtain energy or raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We purchase wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy and other raw materials from third parties. We may experience shortages of energy supplies or raw materials or be forced to seek alternative sources of supply. If we are forced to seek alternative sources of supply, we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. In addition, the prices for energy and many of our raw materials, especially petroleum-based chemicals, have been volatile and have increased over the last year. Prices are expected to remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to a supply shortage and cost increase, ration the amount of chemicals available to us and/or we may not be able to obtain the chemicals we need to operate our business at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, certain specialty chemicals that we purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all. The supply of energy or raw materials may be adversely affected by, among other things, hurricanes and other natural disasters or an outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power and, in particular, events in the Middle East. For example, wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups, litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity, and the response to and prevention of wildfires and campaigns or other measures by environmental activists also could affect timber supplies. The availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice and wind storms, droughts, floods and other natural and man-made causes. Additionally, due to increased fuel costs, suppliers, distributors and freight carriers have charged fuel surcharges, which have increased our costs. Any significant shortage or significant increase in our energy or raw material costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products due to market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any disruption in the supply of energy or raw materials also could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. Furthermore, we may be required to post letters of credit or other financial assurance obligations with certain of our energy and other suppliers, which could limit our financial flexibility. 14 Currency fluctuations may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with producers in North America and abroad. Changes in the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar may affect international trade flows of coated paper products. A stronger U.S. dollar may attract imports from foreign producers, increase supply in the United States, and have a downward effect on prices, while a weaker U.S. dollar may encourage U.S. exports. Variations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar and the euro, may significantly affect our competitive position, including by making it more attractive for foreign producers to restart previously shut-down paper mills or by increasing production capacity in North America or Europe. We are involved in continuous manufacturing processes with a high degree of fixed costs. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities may affect our operating performance. We seek to run our paper machines on a nearly continuous basis for maximum efficiency. Any downtime at any of our paper mills, including as a result of or in connection with planned maintenance and capital expenditure projects, results in unabsorbed fixed costs that negatively affect our results of operations for the period in which we experience the downtime. Due to the extreme operating conditions inherent in some of our manufacturing processes, we may incur unplanned business interruptions from time to time and, as a result, we may not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our operational needs. In addition, many of the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including snow storms, forest fires and flooding. Such natural disasters could cause our mills to stop running, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, during periods of weak demand for paper products, we have in the past and may in the future experience market-related downtime, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations require substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our required capital expenditures. Our business is capital intensive, and we incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain our equipment and comply with environmental laws, as well as to enhance the efficiency of our operations. Our total capital expenditures were $81 million in 2008, including $56 million for maintenance and environmental capital expenditures. We expect to spend approximately $50 million on capital expenditures during 2009, with approximately $35 million for maintenance and environmental capital expenditures. We anticipate that our available cash resources and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures for at least the next year. However, if we require additional funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our facilities and equipment as we require or as necessary to ensure environmental compliance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Our largest customer, International Paper, accounted for approximately 8% of our net sales in 2008. In 2008, our ten largest customers (including International Paper) accounted for approximately 48% of our net sales, while our ten largest end-users accounted for approximately 29% of our net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of these customers or other customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as could significant customer disputes regarding shipments, price, quality or other matters. We may not realize certain productivity enhancements or improvements in costs. As part of our business strategy, we intend to identify opportunities to improve profitability by reducing costs and enhancing productivity. Any cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize from such efforts may differ materially from our estimates. For example, we have several productivity enhancement initiatives to reduce waste and increase the amount of uptime on our paper machines. We cannot be assured that these initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all. Rising postal costs could weaken demand for our paper products. A significant portion of paper is used in magazines, catalogs and other promotional mailings. Many of these materials are distributed through the mail. Future increases in the cost of postage could reduce the frequency of mailings, reduce the number of pages in magazine and advertising materials and/or cause catalog and magazine publishers to use alternate methods to distribute their materials. Any of the foregoing could decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management. We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel. A large percentage of our employees are unionized. Wage increases or work stoppages by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 35%, of our employees were represented by labor unions under four collective bargaining agreements at two of our mills. In 2007, we completed successful labor negotiations for three agreements that were up for renewal during the year, and the new agreements will expire in 2011. We may become subject to material cost increases or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. This could increase expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, although we believe we have good relations with our employees, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third parties for certain transportation services. We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of our products to our customers and transportation of our raw materials to us, in particular, by truck and train. If any third-party transportation provider fails to deliver our products in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell them at full value. Similarly, if any transportation provider fails to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis could be adversely affected by the lack of adequate availability of transportation services, especially rail capacity, whether because of work stoppages or otherwise. Furthermore, increases in the cost of our transportation services, including as a result of rising fuel costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs or other liabilities upon us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local general and industry-specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. We have made, and will continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these requirements. In addition, we handle and dispose of wastes arising from our mill operations and operate a number of on-site landfills to handle that waste. We maintain financial assurance for the projected cost of closure and post-closure care for these landfill operations. We could be subject to potentially significant fines, penalties, criminal sanctions, plant shutdowns or interruptions in operations for any failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at real property, may be held liable for the full cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former paper mills, other properties or other locations where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, wastes. International Paper has agreed to indemnify us, subject to certain limitations, for former properties and former off-site shipments, as well as certain other environmental liabilities. There can be no assurance that International Paper will perform under any of its environmental indemnity obligations, and its failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to claims brought pursuant to applicable laws, rules or regulations for property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impact of our operations, including due to human exposure to hazardous substances. Increasingly stringent or new environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement actions or policies, the discovery of unknown conditions or the bringing of future claims may cause our expenditures for environmental matters to increase, and we may incur material costs associated with these matters. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $1,357.7 million, including $92.1 million outstanding under our revolving credit facility. The total amount of payments we will need to make on our outstanding long-term indebtedness for each of the next three fiscal years is equal to $116.0 million, $115.9 million and $115.7 million, respectively (assuming the current prevailing interest rates on our outstanding floating rate indebtedness remain the same). 17 Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for us. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and other general corporate purposes; · increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · expose us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and our floating rate notes will be subject to variable rates of interest; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · limit our ability to borrow additional funds. In addition, the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our senior secured credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of the indentures governing our outstanding notes and our senior secured credit facilities do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. Lenders under our revolving credit facility may not fund their commitments. Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., or “Lehman," which filed for bankruptcy in October 2008 is one of the lenders under our revolving credit facility, with a commitment of $15.8 million of the $200 million available under the facility. On October 10, 2008, we requested funding in the amount of $100 million under the revolving credit facility, and Lehman failed to fund $7.9 million, the entire portion of its commitment with respect to that borrowing request. Under the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility, if a lender's commitment is not honored, that portion of the lender's commitment under the revolving credit facility will be unavailable to the extent that the lender's commitment is not replaced by a new commitment from an alternate lender. Lenders under our revolving credit facility are well-diversified, totaling 15 lenders at December 31, 2008. We currently anticipate that these lenders, other than Lehman, will participate in future requests for funding. However, there can be no assurance that further deterioration in the credit markets and overall economy will not affect the ability of our lenders to meet their funding commitments. Additionally, our lenders have the ability to transfer their commitments to other institutions, and the risk that committed funds may not be available under distressed market conditions could be exacerbated to the extent that consolidation of the commitments under our facilities or among its lenders were to occur. We have received two notices from the New York Stock Exchange, or "NYSE," that we did not meet its continued listing requirements. If we are unable to rectify this non-compliance in accordance with NYSE rules, our common stock will be delisted from trading on the NYSE, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and value of our common stock. On December 11, 2008, we received notification from the NYSE that we were not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standard requiring that companies maintain an average market capitalization of at least $75 million over any 30 consecutive trading-day period. Under the NYSE’s rules, we have 18 months, or until June 11, 2010, to correct this deficiency. Notwithstanding the cure period for the $75 million average market capitalization standard, if our average market capitalization falls below $25 million (or $15 million through June 30, 2009, under temporary rulemaking by the NYSE) over any 30 consecutive trading-day period, the NYSE will automatically begin delisting proceedings with respect to our common stock. There is no cure period if our average market capitalization falls below this level. While we plan to address these deficiencies within the required timeframe, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so or that the NYSE will not exercise its discretion and begin delisting proceedings against us as a result of an abnormally low average common stock price. 18 In addition, on February 2, 2009, we received notification from the NYSE that we were not in compliance with the NYSE's continued listing standard requiring that the average closing price of our common stock be above $1.00 per share over a 30 consecutive trading-day period. Under the NYSE’s rules, we normally would have six months, or until August 2, 2009, for our share price and average share price to comply with the share price standard. However, on February 26, 2009, the NYSE temporarily suspended the $1.00 requirement until June 30, 2009, and allowed companies currently below the $1.00 minimum level that do not regain compliance during the suspension period to recommence their compliance period upon reinstitution of the share price standard and thereupon to receive the remaining balance of their compliance period. If the share price and average share price of our common stock do not regain compliance with the $1.00 requirement during the suspension period, under the NYSE’s temporary rulemaking we will have until on or about December 1, 2009, in which to comply with the share price standard. Notwithstanding the cure period for the share price standard, if our share price falls below the $1.00 threshold to the point where the NYSE considers the share price to be "abnormally low," the NYSE has the discretion to begin delisting proceedings immediately with respect to our common stock. While there is no formal definition of "abnormally low" in the NYSE rules, the NYSE has the right to make such a determination at any time. To the extent that our share price remains significantly below $1.00 for an extended period of time, the NYSE has broad discretion as to whether, and if so, when it would seek to delist our common stock from trading on the NYSE. If we are unable to regain compliance with the NYSE’s continued listing standards within the required time frames, our common stock will be delisted from the NYSE. As a result, we likely would have our common stock quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, or the “OTC BB,” in order to have our common stock continue to be traded on a public market. Securities that trade on the OTC BB generally have less liquidity and greater volatility than securities that trade on the NYSE. Delisting from the NYSE also may preclude us from using certain state securities law exemptions, which could make it more difficult and expensive for us to raise capital in the future and more difficult for us to provide compensation packages sufficient to attract and retain top talent. In addition, because issuers whose securities trade on the OTC BB are not subject to the corporate governance and other standards imposed by the NYSE, our reputation may suffer, which could result in a decrease in the trading price of our shares. The delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, therefore, could significantly disrupt the ability of investors to trade our common stock and could have a material adverse effect on the value and liquidity of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 19 Item 