ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline. In addition to the following risk factors, please refer to the other information contained in this report, including the historical consolidated financial statements and related notes. Risks Related to Our Business Continued disruption in credit markets, financial markets, the economy, and governmental policy changes may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent disruptions in the financial and credit markets together with falling oil and natural gas prices and possible policies of the new administration regarding domestic oil and natural gas exploration and development may adversely affect our business and our financial results. The tightening of credit markets may reduce the ability of our customers to buy products from us at historic levels for an unknown, but perhaps lengthy, period. It may also result in customers extending times for payment and may result in our having higher customer receivables with increased default rates. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and foreign economies may also cause customers to reduce their purchases from us even if they have cash or if credit is available to them. Falling oil and natural gas prices may result in a slowdown in drilling which would reduce the demand for our product by the oil and gas industry. If oil and natural gas drilling were to decline significantly, we would be required to compact our standard product in order to sell a portion of it into the agricultural market, which would increase our production costs. Oil and natural gas domestic exploration and development may also be reduced as a result of policies of the new administration. If we are required to raise additional capital, we may be unable to do so in the current credit and stock market environment, or would be able to do so only on unfavorable terms. Our potash sales are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may negatively affect our operating results. Historically, the market for potash has been cyclical, and the prices and demand for potash have fluctuated. Periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. This growth continues until the market is over-saturated, leading to decreased prices and capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. Furthermore, potash producers have, at various times, suspended production in response to delayed purchasing decisions by potash customers in anticipation of lower prices. For example, during the last four months of 2008 and extending into 2009, demand for potash contracted due to uncertainty resulting from the global financial crisis, decreases in commodity prices of agricultural products, concerns by farm producers about input costs, and the effect that lower prices for their product might have on their operations. The majority of potash producers have since independently announced production curtailments to match potash production to demand. As a result of these various factors, the price of potash can be volatile. Farmers also have the ability to consider lower application rates of potash in an effort to extract potassium from the soil. This volume and price volatility may reduce profit margins and negatively affect our operating results. We sell the majority of our potash into the spot market in the U.S. and have no long-term or material short-term contracts for the sale of potash. In addition, there is no active hedge market for potash as compared to the gold market, for example. As a result, we do not have and cannot obtain protection from this volume and price volatility. Mining is a complex and hazardous process which frequently experiences production disruptions, and the nature of our operations may make us more vulnerable to such disruptions than our competitors. The process of mining is complex and equipment- and labor-intensive, and involves risks and hazards including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected 22 Table of Contents geological conditions or acts of nature. Production delays can occur due to equipment failures, unforeseen mining problems and other unexpected events. In addition, we must transport mined product for long distances to remove it from the mines for processing, which creates a higher probability of accidents. Our facilities and equipment are older than the average North American potash mine and may require more maintenance or be more likely to fail than newer facilities or equipment. Our shafts at our West mine were constructed in 1931 and require frequent maintenance due to water inflow, wooden structure and salt buildup and are located in an area of known subsidence. Additionally, langbeinite ore is harder and more abrasive than muriate of potash ore and has caused greater wear on our mining and milling equipment at our East mine, which has increased and may continue to increase the expense and frequency of maintenance and repairs. Operational difficulties can also arise from our milling processes; for example, our East mine mill experiences build-ups of glaserite, an undesirable by-product of langbeinite production, and we must remove this build-up. The amounts that we are required to spend on maintenance and repairs may be significant and higher than expected, and we may have to divert resources from our planned capital expenditures focused on growth, such as increases in nameplate and effective capacity, for use on capital expenditures to maintain existing effective capacity. Production delays or stoppages will adversely affect our sales and operating results, and higher than expected maintenance and repair expenses may adversely affect our operating results. The grade of ore that we mine may vary from our projections due to the complex geology of potash reserves, which could adversely affect our potash production and our financial results. Our potash production is affected by the ore grade, or potassium content of the ore. Our projections of ore grade may vary from time to time, and the amount of potash that we actually produce may vary substantially from our projections. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore grade, including many factors beyond our control. Potash ore bodies have complex geology. The occurrence of large, unknown salt deposits, known as salt horsts, in core ore areas located in Carlsbad, New Mexico or Moab, Utah would adversely affect ore grades. An unexpected reduction in the grade of our ore reserves would decrease our potash production because we would need to process more ore to produce the same amount of saleable-grade product. As a result, our expected future cash flows would be materially adversely affected. Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves. Our reserve estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts of muriate of potash and langbeinite we may be able to economically recover from our reserves. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of muriate of potash and langbeinite reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which, if incorrect, may result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: •future potash prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, royalties, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs; •future mining technology improvements; •the effects of regulation by governmental agencies; and •geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine or operate. Because reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is reviewed by a reserve engineer in sufficient detail to determine if, in the aggregate, the data provided by us are reasonable and sufficient to estimate reserves in conformity with 23 Table of Contents practices and standards generally employed by and within the mining industry and in accordance with SEC requirements. Our business depends upon skilled and experienced personnel, and employee turnover may have a material adverse effect on our development and operating results. The success of our business depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managers and other personnel. We compete for experienced laborers with other industries, including a copper mine in Moab, Utah, a nuclear waste management facility in southeast New Mexico, and oil fields and other potash facilities near Carlsbad, New Mexico. A new uranium enrichment facility in Eunice, New Mexico is under construction. Employee turnover in proximity to Carlsbad has generally been high, and the continued expansion of nuclear facilities near Carlsbad threatens to increase competition for qualified workers. If we are not able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business, we may have to raise wages to keep employees or hire less qualified workers, either of which would ultimately result in higher labor costs per ton of potash produced. Prices of natural gas and other important raw materials and energy used in our business are volatile. Changes in the prices of raw materials or energy or disruptions to supply could adversely impact our business and our sales. Natural gas, electricity, steel, water, chemicals and fuel, including diesel and gasoline, are key raw materials used in our production of potash products. Natural gas is a significant energy source used in the solution mining process at the Moab mine and at the East mine processing plant. Our sales and profitability from time to time have been and may in the future be impacted by the price and availability of these raw materials and other energy costs. A significant increase in the price of natural gas, electricity and fuel that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our potash, or an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, electricity, water or fuel to our production facilities, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. High natural gas costs also may increase farm input costs, which may cause our potash sales to decline. The price of natural gas in North America is highly volatile. Since January 2004, natural gas prices according to the El Paso Natural Gas Co. Permian Basin index, on which the prices we pay for natural gas are primarily based, have ranged from a high of $10.75 per MMBtu in November 2005 to a low of $2.74 per MMBtu in March 2009. Steel is a commodity that is also subject to volatile pricing. Since January 2004, hot rolled coil steel prices have ranged from a high of $1,306 per ton in August 2008 to a low of $488 per ton in January 2004. Our forecasts of capital expenditures are based on assumptions with respect to prices of skilled labor and commodities, including steel and concrete. We cannot predict future commodity prices, and if such prices are higher than expected, we may lose sales to competitors with lower production costs, our profitability could be materially adversely affected and our capital expenditures could increase. Aggressive pricing strategies by our competitors could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Many of our competitors have significantly larger operations than we do and mine potash from reserves that are thicker, higher-grade and less geologically complex than our reserves. The large size of some of our competitors may give them greater leverage in pricing negotiations with customers and may enable them to negotiate better rates for transportation of products sold. The nature of our competitors' reserves and the economies of scale of their operations may allow them to mine their potash at a lower cost. If one or more of these competitors were to decide for any reason to aggressively lower prices in an attempt to increase their sales, our size and cost structure might not allow us to match that pricing, such that we would likely lose sales and our operating results and profitability would be materially adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Any decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products. Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry can significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, the domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. State and federal governmental policies, including farm and ethanol subsidies and commodity support programs, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. In addition, several states are currently considering limitations on the use and application of fertilizers due to concerns about the impact of these products on the environment. A decline in oil and gas drilling or a reduction in the use of potash in drilling fluids in the Permian Basin or Rocky Mountain regions may increase our operating costs and decrease our average net sales per ton of potash. A significant portion of our sales consists of sales of standard potash for use in oil and gas drilling fluids in the Permian Basin and Rocky Mountain regions. Due to the decline in oil and gas drilling, we have chosen to compact some of our standard product to sell it into the agricultural market, which has increased our production costs. This can have an impact on our net sales per ton for our agricultural tons, as agricultural sales may require transportation to more distant delivery points. Alternative products that have some of the clay-inhibiting properties of potash in oil and gas drilling fluids are commercially available. As the price of potash increases, these alternative products may replace some of our sales of standard potash, which would reduce our industrial sales and result in the same increases in production costs and decreases in net sales per ton. Our per ton profitability could be eroded by increases in operating costs. A substantial portion of our operating cost structure is comprised of fixed costs consisting primarily of labor and benefits, base energy usage, property taxes, insurance, maintenance, and some depreciation; we also have variable costs associated primarily with overtime and associated benefits, contractor labor, consumable operating supplies and chemicals, some level of energy and per unit depreciation. Because a portion of our operating costs are fixed, reductions in production tonnage could increase our per ton cost per sales and correspondingly decrease our operating margin on a per ton basis. Some of our competitors have greater capital and human resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. We compete with a number of producers in North America and throughout the world. Some of these competitors may have greater total resources than we do. Competition in our product lines is based on a number of considerations, including product performance, transportation costs, brand reputation, price and quality of client service and support. To remain competitive, we need to invest continuously in production infrastructure, marketing and customer relationships. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We may also need to borrow funds and become more highly leveraged. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or maintain our competitive position relative to some of our competitors who have greater capital and human resources. To the extent other potash producers enjoy competitive advantages, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits could be materially adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents A shortage of railcars and trucks for carrying our products as well as increased transit time could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of production or sales and higher transportation or equipment costs. We rely heavily upon truck and rail transportation to deliver our products to our customers. In addition, the cost of transportation is an important component of the price of our products. Identifying and securing affordable and dependable transportation is important in supplying our customers and, to some extent, in the delivery to us of chemicals and other supplies and equipment for our mining operations. A shortage of railcars for carrying product as well as increased transit time in North America due to congestion in the rail system could prevent us from making timely delivery to our customers or lead to higher transportation costs, either of which could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales. In addition, PCS Sales, which markets our products outside North America, may have difficulty obtaining access to ships for sales of our products overseas. Higher costs for transportation services or an interruption or slowdown in these transport services due to high demand, labor disputes, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail systems, would negatively affect our ability to deliver products to our customers, which would harm our performance and operating results. The seasonal demand for our products and the variations in our cash flows from quarter to quarter may have an adverse effect on our operating results and make the price of our common stock more volatile. The fertilizer business is seasonal, with operating results that vary from quarter to quarter as a result of crop growing and harvesting seasons and weather conditions, as well as other factors. Over the last three years, we have averaged 28 percent of our annual potash sales volume during the three-month period from February through April, when the demand for fertilizer typically peaks in the markets we serve. We and our customers generally build inventories during low-demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during peak sales seasons. The seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales revenue typically being the highest during the North American spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just before the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. If seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability could be materially reduced as a result. If seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. We rely on our innovative senior management personnel for the development and execution of our business strategy, and the loss of any member of our senior management team may have a material adverse effect on our growth and operating results. Our executives have significant relevant industry experience. Our senior management team has developed and implemented first-of-their-kind processes and other innovative ideas that are largely responsible for the success of our business. The loss of the services of any of our key executives could prevent us from achieving our business strategies or limit our business growth and operating results. We do not currently maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our key executives. Weakening of the Canadian dollar and Russian ruble against the U.S. dollar could lead to lower domestic potash prices, which would adversely affect our operating results, and fluctuations in these currencies may cause our operating results and our stock price to fluctuate. The U.S. imports the majority of its potash from Canada and Russia. If the Canadian dollar and the Russian ruble strengthen in comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign suppliers realize a smaller margin in their local currencies unless they increase their nominal U.S. dollar prices. Strengthening of the Canadian dollar and ruble therefore tend to support higher U.S. potash prices as Canadian and Russian potash producers attempt to maintain their margins. However, if the Canadian dollar and ruble weaken in comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign competitors may choose to lower prices 26 Table of Contents proportionally to increase sales volumes while again maintaining a margin in their local currency. A decrease in the net realized sales price of our potash would adversely affect our operating results. Existing and further oil and gas development in the Potash Area in New Mexico could result in methane gas leaking into our mines that could result in the loss of life and significant property damage, and require indefinite suspension of operations unless extensive modifications were made to the mines. Our New Mexico operations are primarily on leased federal land administered by the BLM in the 497,000-acre Potash Area established by order of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior. Under our leases, the BLM retains the right to permit other uses of the land on which our leases are located. The Potash Area also contains significant oil and gas deposits that are below our potash reserves, and approximately 3,000 oil and gas wells have been drilled in the Potash Area. Several oil and gas companies are actively seeking BLM and state permits to drill additional wells in the Potash Area. Oil and gas drilling near our mines poses risks to our operations. The subsidence of the surface and underlying strata that occurs following completion of mining operations may damage the casing of any oil or gas well located within the subsidence area. That damage may result in methane gas escaping from the well and migrating through surrounding strata into our mines. Methane gas could also leak from a well located outside the subsidence area and migrate into a mine. We test our mines for methane gas daily; however, unlike coal mines which are constructed and equipped to handle the presence of methane gas, our mines are not constructed or equipped to deal with methane gas. Any intrusion of methane gas into our mines could cause an explosion resulting in loss of life and significant property damage and require suspension of all mining operations until the completion of extensive modifications and reequipping of the mine. The costs of modifying our mines and equipment could make it uneconomic to reopen our mines because our liability, casualty and business interruption insurance would not be adequate to cover such catastrophic events. Existing and further oil and gas development in the Potash Area in New Mexico could prevent us from mining potash reserves or deposits within the necessary safety pillar around oil and gas wells. The drilling of oil and gas wells in the Potash Area is regulated by the 1986 order of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior as to federal lands (which constitute the vast majority of the Potash Area). Similar State of New Mexico regulations govern state and fee lands in the Potash Area. The Secretary's order and related regulations, with certain exceptions, restrict oil and gas drilling that would result in the undue waste of potash or would constitute a safety hazard to potash miners. Drilling that does not immediately affect our current operations may limit our ability to mine valuable potash reserves or deposits in the future because safety considerations require that mining operations not be conducted close to a well, even if the well is inactive. As a result, we will be unable to mine potash located within the appropriate "safety pillar" around an oil or gas well. We review applications for permits to drill oil and gas wells as they are filed with the BLM and generally protest applications for drilling permits that we believe may impair our ability to mine our potash reserves or deposits. We may not prevail in any such protest or be able to prevent wells from being drilled in the vicinity of our potash reserves or deposits. Our potash reserves or deposits may be significantly impaired if, notwithstanding our protests and appeals, a sufficient number of wells are drilled through or near our potash reserves or deposits. We expect oil and gas companies to continue to seek drilling permits and to contest our efforts to restrict drilling within the Potash Area. In 2007, we lobbied to cause a reassessment by the BLM and Department of the Interior of their policies concerning granting of oil and gas drilling permits in the Potash Area in order to protect our existing operations and future potash reserves or deposits from the adverse effects of oil and gas drilling. In July 2007, the Department of the Interior said that it will conduct a new study on the safety of developing oil and gas wells in the Potash Area and that another study had been undertaken to evaluate the use of certain technologies to map the potash resource within the Potash Area. The 27 Table of Contents outcome of these studies will affect the future issuance of drilling permits that could adversely affect our mining operations and the value of our potash reserves or deposits. Our operations depend on our having received and maintained the required permits and approvals from and lease negotiations with governmental authorities. We hold numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. A decision by a governmental agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could prevent or limit our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Expansion of our existing operations also would require securing the necessary environmental and other permits and approvals, which we may not receive in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, the federal government may require an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement as a condition of approving a project or permit, which could result in additional time delays and costs. Furthermore, our mining operations take place on land that is leased from federal and state governmental authorities. Expansion of our existing operations may require securing additional federal and state leases, which we may not obtain in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, our existing leases generally require us to commence mining operations within a specified time frame and to continue mining in order to retain the lease. The loss of a lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. Also, our existing leases require us to make royalty payments based on the revenue generated by the potash we produce from the leased land. The royalty rates are subject to change, which may lead to significant increases, at the time we renew our leases. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 60 percent of our state and federal lease acres at our New Mexico facilities (including leases at the HB and North mines) and approximately 11 percent of our state and federal lease acres at our Utah operations will be up for renewal within the next five years. Increases in royalty rates would reduce our profit margins and, if such increases were significant, would adversely affect our operating results. Our preliminary plans for reopening the HB mine and developing additional strategic growth opportunities may require more time and greater capital spending than we expected. We currently plan to reopen the HB mine as a solution mine. We commissioned a feasibility study, which was completed in March 2008, for the purpose of publicly reporting the reserves related to this project. Reopening the mine will be subject to significant costs and risks. We will require site approval and various permits from the State of New Mexico and the Bureau of Land Management, which we may be unable to obtain in a timely manner or on reasonable terms, or at all. In January 2009, the BLM decided that it will require an Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS") to be prepared for the HB solution mine project. Based on discussions with the BLM, we currently anticipate that completion of the EIS will take approximately 18 to 24 months from February 2009. Oil and gas lessees in the region have opposed our permitting process before the BLM, which, we believe, was a contributing factor in the BLM's decision to require completion of an EIS for the project. Continued opposition by oil and gas lessees or other third parties to our permitting plans may further delay or prevent the reopening of the mine. Even if we obtain all required approvals, it may be several years before the mine produces potash, and construction of the solar ponds and refurbishing of the mine facilities may take longer or cost significantly more than we expect. We may be unable to produce potash economically from the HB mine if reopened, or our profitability from the project may be lower than we expect. We are also considering various other potential opportunities for revenue and strategic growth, including potentially reopening the idled North mine. These potential plans are at an early stage, and we may not actually proceed with any of them. If we do choose to proceed with any such opportunity, the project may not succeed, despite our having made substantial investments; it may cost significantly more than we expect; or we may encounter additional risks which we cannot anticipate at this time. 28 Table of Contents New long-term product supply can create structural market imbalances, which could negatively affect our operating results and financial performance. Potash is a commodity, and the market for potash is highly competitive and affected by global supply and demand. With recent favorable prices for potash products, producers have been, and will likely continue to be, engaged in expansion and development projects to increase production. Many of these projects to increase potash production on a long-term basis are speculative. However, if potash production is increased beyond potash demand, the price at which we sell our potash and our sales volume would likely fall, which would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The market for langbeinite is still developing and could be affected by new market entrants or the introduction of langbeinite alternatives. Langbeinite, a low-chloride source of potassium, is produced by Intrepid and Mosaic from the only known langbeinite reserves located in the Carlsbad, New Mexico region. The demand for langbeinite has been limited due mostly to its limited supply and availability, and it is difficult to determine how the supply, demand and pricing for langbeinite will develop. Furthermore, additional competition in the market for langbeinite and comparable products exists and may increase in the future. A German company is currently producing a low-chloride fertilizer similar to langbeinite, and Chinese producers are working on a project to synthesize langbeinite from brines, with a goal of producing significant amounts of langbeinite by 2010. We plan to sell a significant amount of Trio® in China, and these sales may be reduced to the extent China is able to produce its own product internally. Other companies may currently or in the future seek to create and market chemically similar alternatives to langbeinite. The market for langbeinite and our Trio® sales may be affected by the success of these and other competitive sources for langbeinite, which could materially adversely affect the viability of our Trio® business and our operating results and financial condition. As a potash-only producer, we are less diversified than nearly all of our competitors, and a decrease in the demand for potash and langbeinite or increase in potash supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dedicated exclusively to the production and marketing of potash and langbeinite, whereas nearly all of our competitors are diversified, primarily into other nitrogen and phosphate-based fertilizer businesses and other chemical and industrial businesses. As a result of our potash focus and domestic geographic focus, we would likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified and our sales more global. A decrease in the demand for potash and langbeinite could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, a large increase in potash supply could also materially impact our financial condition more than our diversified competitors. Inflows of water into our potash mines from heavy rainfall or groundwater could result in increased costs and production down time and may require us to abandon a mine, either of which could adversely affect our operating results. Major weather events such as heavy rainfall can result in water inflows into our mines. In October 2006, water inflows from rainfall caused unused utilities in a mine shaft at our West mine to break loose and block the mine shaft. As a result, we were forced to shut down the West mine for 54 days to remove the utilities and improve water controls in the shaft. The shutdown significantly lowered our 2006 potash production from the West mine. Additionally, the presence of water-bearing strata in many underground mines carries the risk of water inflows into the mines. If we experience additional water inflows at our mines in the future, our employees could be injured and our equipment and mine shafts could be seriously damaged. We might be forced to shut down the affected mine temporarily, 29 Table of Contents potentially resulting in significant production delays, and spend substantial funds to repair or replace damaged equipment. Inflows may also destabilize the mine shafts over time, resulting in safety hazards for employees and potentially leading to the permanent abandonment of a mine. We do not carry insurance to cover the risks of water inflows. Heavy fall precipitation or low evaporation rates at our Moab and Wendover facilities could delay our potash production at those facilities, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Our facilities in Moab and Wendover, Utah use solar evaporation ponds to form potash crystals from brines. This process is limited by rainfall and evaporation rates. Heavy rainfall in September and October, just after the evaporation season ends, would temporarily reduce the amount of potash we can produce by causing the potash crystals to dissolve. Lower than average temperatures and higher than average seasonal rainfall reduce evaporation rates, which also would temporarily limit the amount of potash we are able to produce and push that production into later quarters or years. If these weather conditions occur at either or both of our Moab and Wendover facilities, we would have less potash available for sale and our sales and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we plan to use solar evaporation ponds in connection with the reopening of the HB mine. As the number of our solar ponds increases, our production risks related to rainfall and evaporation rates will increase. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability and require us to incur additional costs in the future. We are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to mine safety, mine land reclamation, remediation of hazardous substance releases, and the regulation of discharges into the soil, air and water. Operations by us and our predecessors have involved the historical use and handling of regulated substances, refined petroleum products, potash, salt, related potash and salt by-products, and process tailings. These operations resulted, or may have resulted, in soil, surface water and groundwater contamination. At some locations, there are areas where salt-processing waste, building materials (including asbestos-containing transite) and ordinary trash may have been disposed or buried, and have since been closed and covered with soil and other materials. Under environmental remediation laws such as the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, or CERCLA, liability is imposed, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons (known as "potentially responsible parties") who are considered to have contributed to the release of "hazardous substances" into the environment. We may in the future incur material liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental remediation laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or off-site disposal locations. Under CERCLA, or its various state analogues, one party may, under some circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. Liability under these laws involves inherent uncertainties. Previously, governmental agencies have required us to undertake certain remedial activities to address identified site conditions. For example, we have worked with Utah officials to address asbestos-related issues at our Moab mine. Many of our facilities also contain permitted asbestos landfills, some of which have been closed. Additionally, we are currently working with federal officials to resolve issues concerning the disposal of asbestos-containing transite at an unpermitted location at our West mine, which may require additional removal of transite material, a land swap or another remedy. Additionally, certain environmental laws, such as the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Clean Air Act, regulate and permit discharges of pollutants and contaminants into the environment. Violations of these environmental, health and safety laws are subject to civil, and in some cases criminal, sanctions. 30 Table of Contents We may in the future incur material liabilities under the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, or similar federal and state laws due to: •changes in the interpretation of environmental laws; •modifications to current environmental laws; •the issuance of more stringent environmental laws in the future; or •malfunctioning process or pollution control equipment. For example, our water disposal processes rely on dikes and reclamation ponds which could breach or leak, resulting in a possible release into the environment. Moreover, although the North and East mines in New Mexico and the Moab mine in Utah are designated as zero discharge facilities under the applicable water quality laws and regulations, these mines may experience some discharges during significant rainfall events. Also, changes to existing environmental laws or permits, or the issuance of more stringent environmental laws or permits, could require additional equipment, facilities, or employees to address water disposal issues. Mining and processing of potash also generates residual materials that must be managed both during the operation of the facility and upon facility closure. For example, potash tailings, consisting primarily of salt, iron and clay, are stored in surface disposal sites and require management. At least one of our New Mexico mining facilities, the HB mine, may have issues regarding lead in the tailings pile. During the life of the tailings management areas, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs to manage potash residual materials in accordance with environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements. As a potash producer, we currently are exempt from certain State of New Mexico mining laws related to reclamation obligations. If this exemption were to be eliminated or restricted in the future, we might be required to incur significant expenses related to reclamation at our Carlsbad, New Mexico facilities. Government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations may require substantial capital expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For more information, see "Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters" beginning on page xx. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility allows us to borrow up to $125 million. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: •it may limit our ability to borrow money or sell additional shares of common stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •we may be more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy; •it will require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and 31 Table of Contents •it may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. In addition, our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt. Mining is a capital-intensive business, and the inability to fund necessary or desirable capital expenditures could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. Mining is a capital-intensive business. We anticipate making significant capital expenditures over the next several years in connection with the development of new projects such as reopening the HB mine, the various expansions at our existing operating facilities and sustaining existing operations. Costs associated with capital expenditures have escalated on an industry-wide basis over the last several years, largely as a result of major factors beyond our control such as increases in the price of natural gas, steel and other commodities. As costs associated with capital expenditures continue to increase, we could have difficulty funding or be unable to fund needed or planned capital expenditures, which would limit the expansion of our production or the inability to sustain our existing operations at optimal levels. Increased costs for capital expenditures could also have an adverse effect on the profitability of our existing operations and returns from our new projects. Market upheavals due to global pandemics, military actions, terrorist attacks and any global and domestic economic repercussions from those events could reduce our sales and revenues. Global pandemics, actual or threatened armed conflicts, future terrorist attacks or military or trade disruptions affecting the areas where we or our competitors do business may disrupt the global market for potash. As a result, our competitors may increase their sales efforts in our geographic markets and pricing of potash may suffer. If this occurs, we may lose sales to our competitors or be forced to lower our prices, which would reduce our revenues. In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations impacting the production, transportation, sale or use of potash. Any such regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our potash and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and reduced profit margins. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, we may experience significant increases in the cost of labor or a disruption in our Wendover operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had 776 total employees. Approximately 5 percent of our workforce, consisting solely of employees in Wendover, is represented by labor unions. Our collective bargaining agreement with our hourly employees in Wendover expires on May 31, 2011. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, as a result of general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, political and other factors beyond our control, we may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. Such negotiations may result in significant increases in the cost of labor and a breakdown in such negotiations could disrupt our Wendover operations. If employees at any of our other facilities were to unionize in the future, these risks would increase. We are a holding company with no operations of our own and depend on our subsidiaries for cash. Because our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and pay dividends, if any, to our stockholders is dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. None of our subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to us for payment on our indebtedness or to pay any dividends to holders of our common 32 Table of Contents stock. Future financing arrangements of our subsidiaries, such as project financing, may significantly restrict or prohibit our subsidiaries from paying dividends or otherwise transferring assets to us. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly and without regard to our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the offering price. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this prospectus, including: •our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow Intrepid or other companies in our industry; •variations in general economic, market and political conditions; •actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by current members of Mining or our directors and executive officers; •the arrival or departure of key personnel; and •other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. We may issue additional securities, including securities that are senior in right of dividends, liquidation and voting to the common stock, without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue up to 25,014,974 additional shares of common stock and up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock at any time without the approval of our stockholders, except as may be required by applicable NYSE rules. Our board of directors may approve the issuance of preferred stock with terms that are senior to our common stock in right of dividends, liquidation or voting. The issuance by us of additional common shares or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our stockholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and •the market price of the common stock may decline. 33 Table of Contents We will not be fully subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 until the end of 2009. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and, as a result, our business could be harmed and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in us, which could cause our stock price to fall. We will be required to document our system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will first apply to us for our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. As a result, we expect to incur substantial additional expenses and diversion of management's time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or their effect on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NYSE. Any such action could harm our business or investors' confidence in us and could cause our stock price to fall. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Other than the Formation Distribution, we have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various barriers to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Among other things, these provisions: •authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, except as may be required by applicable NYSE rules, with rights senior to those of common stock; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •require vacancies and newly created directorships on the board of directors to be filled only by a majority of the directors then serving on the board; •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and •classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders' receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Intrepid has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 34 Table of Contents 