Item 1A. Risk Factors ● Almost all of our revenue is derived from sales of energy recovery devices and pumps used in reverse osmosis desalination; a decline in demand for desalination or the reverse osmosis method of desalination will reduce demand for our products and will cause our sales and revenue to decline. Products for the desalination market have historically accounted for a high percentage of our revenue. We expect that the revenue from these products will continue to account for most of our revenue in the next few years. Any factors adversely affecting the demand for desalination, including changes in weather patterns, increased precipitation in areas of high human population density, new technology for producing fresh water, increased water conservation or reuse, political changes and unrest, changes in the global economy, or changes in industry or governmental regulations could reduce the demand for our energy recovery products and services and could cause a significant decline in our revenue. Similarly, any factors adversely affecting the demand for energy recovery products in reverse osmosis desalination, including new energy technology or reduced energy costs, new methods of desalination that reduce pressure and energy requirements, or improvements in membrane technology could reduce the demand for our energy recovery devices and could cause a significant decline in our revenue. Some of the factors that may affect sales of our energy recovery devices and pumps may be out of our control. ● We depend on the construction of new desalination plants for revenue, and as a result, our operating results have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant variability due to volatility in capital spending, availability of project financing, and other factors affecting the water desalination industry. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from sales of products and services used in desalination plants for municipalities, hotels, mobile containerized desalination solutions, resorts, and agricultural operations in dry or drought-ridden regions of the world. The demand for our products may decrease if the construction of desalination plants declines for political, economic, or other factors, especially in these regions. Other factors that could affect the number and capacity of desalination plants built or the timing of their completion include the availability of required engineering and design resources; a weak global economy; shortage in the supply of credit and other forms of financing; changes in government regulation, permitting requirements, or priorities; and reduced capital spending for desalination. Each of these factors could result in reduced or uneven demand for our products. Pronounced variability or delays in the construction of desalination plants or reductions in spending for desalination could negatively impact our sales and revenue and make it difficult for us to accurately forecast our future sales and revenue, which could lead to increased inventory and use of working capital. ● Our revenue and growth depend upon the continued viability and growth of the seawater reverse osmosis desalination industry using current technology. If there is a downturn in the seawater reverse osmosis desalination industry, our sales would be directly and adversely impacted. Changes in seawater reverse osmosis desalination technology could also reduce the demand for our devices. For example, a reduction in the operating pressure used in seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants could reduce the need for, and viability of, our energy recovery devices. Membrane manufacturers are actively working on low-pressure membranes for seawater reverse osmosis desalination that could potentially be used on a large scale to desalinate seawater at much lower pressures than is currently necessary. Engineers are also evaluating the possibility of diluting seawater prior to reverse osmosis desalination to reduce the required membrane pressure. Similarly, an increase in the membrane recovery rate would reduce the number of energy recovery devices required and would reduce the demand for our product. A significant reduction in the cost of power may reduce demand for our product or favor a less expensive product from a competitor. Any of these changes would adversely impact our revenue and growth. Water shortages and demand for desalination can also be adversely affected by water conservation and water reuse initiatives. ● New planned seawater reverse osmosis projects can be cancelled and/or delayed, and cancellations and/or delays may negatively impact our revenue. Planned seawater reverse osmosis desalination projects can be cancelled or postponed due to delays in, or failure to obtain, approval, financing, or permitting for plant construction because of political factors, including political unrest in key desalination markets such as the Middle East; worsening financial conditions; or other factors. Even though we may have a signed contract to provide a certain number of energy recovery devices by a certain date, shipments may be suspended or delayed at the request of customers. Such shipping delays negatively impact our results of operations and revenue. As a result of these factors, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, significant variability in our revenue on both an annual and a quarterly basis. - 9 - ● We rely on a limited number of engineering, procurement, and construction firms for a large portion of our revenue. If these customers delay or cancel their commitments, do not purchase our products in connection with future projects, or are unable to attract and retain sufficient qualified engineers to support their growth, our revenue could significantly decrease, which would adversely affect our financial condition and future growth. There are a limited number of large engineering, procurement, and construction firms in the desalination industry, and these customers account for a substantial portion of our net revenue. One or more of these customers represent 10% or more of our net revenue each year, and the customers in this category vary from year to year. Since, in most cases, we do not have long-term contracts with these large customers, but rather sell to them on a purchase order or project basis, these orders may be postponed or delayed on short or no notice. If any of these customers reduces or delays its purchases, cancels a project, decides not to specify our products for future projects, fails to attract and retain qualified engineers and other staff, fails to pay amounts due to us, experiences financial difficulties, or experiences reduced demand for its services, we may not be able to replace that lost business and our projected revenue may significantly decrease, which will adversely affect our financial condition and future growth. ● We face competition from a number of companies that offer competing energy recovery and pump solutions. If any one of these companies produces superior technology or offers more cost-effective products, our competitive position in the market could be harmed and our profits may decline. The market for energy recovery devices and pumps for desalination plants is competitive and evolving. We expect competition, especially competition on price, to persist and intensify as the desalination market grows and new competitors enter the market. Some of our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources; longer operating histories; or greater name recognition. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale, and support of their products and respond more quickly to new technologies. These companies may also have more extensive customer bases, broader customer relationships across product lines, or long-standing or exclusive relationships with our current or potential customers. They may also have more extensive products and product lines that would enable them to offer multi-product or packaged solutions as well as competing products at lower prices or with other more favorable terms and conditions. As a result, our ability to sustain our market share may be adversely impacted, which would affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, if one of our competitors were to merge or partner with another company, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our continuing ability to compete effectively. ● Part of our inventory may be written off, which would increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we may be exposed to inventory-related losses on inventories purchased by our contract manufacturers. Inventory of raw materials, parts, components, work in-process, or finished products may accumulate, and we may encounter losses due to a variety of factors, including: • technological change in the desalination and oil and gas industries that result in product changes; • long delays in shipment of our products or order cancellations; • our need to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the configuration of our high-efficiency pumps; and • cost reduction initiatives resulting in component changes within the products. In addition, we may from time to time purchase more inventory than is immediately required in order to shorten our delivery time in case of an increase in demand for our products. If we are unable to forecast demand for our products with any degree of certainty and our actual orders from our customers are lower than these forecasts, we may accumulate excess inventory that we may be required to write off. If we are forced to write off this inventory, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. - 10 - ● Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, making our future operating results difficult to predict causing our operating results to fall below expectations or guidance. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Since a single order for our energy recovery devices may represent substantial revenue, we have experienced significant fluctuations in revenue from quarter to quarter and year to year, and we expect such fluctuations to continue. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock would likely decline. In 2013 and in some past years, customer buying patterns led to a significant portion of our sales occurring in the fourth quarter, with the risk that delays, cancellations, or other adverse events in the fourth quarter had a substantial negative impact on annual results. More recently, our results have fluctuated or decreased due to adverse timing of larger orders during the year, the effects of a global decline in new desalination plant construction stemming from global economic and financial pressures, and competition. It is difficult for us to anticipate our future results, and our stock price may be adversely affected by the risks discussed in this paragraph. ● If we are unable to collect unbilled receivables, which are caused by holdback provisions, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our contracts with large engineering, procurement, and construction firms generally contain holdback provisions that typically delay final installment payments by up to 24 months after the product has been shipped and revenue has been recognized. Typically, between 5% and 25%, of the revenue we recognize pursuant to our customer contracts is subject to such holdback provisions and is accounted for as unbilled receivables until we deliver invoices for payment. Such holdbacks can result in relatively high current and non-current unbilled receivables. If we are unable to invoice and collect these performance holdbacks or if our customers fail to make these payments when due under the sales contracts, our results of operations will be adversely affected. ● If we lose key personnel upon whom we are dependent, we may not be able to execute our strategies. Our ability to increase our revenue will depend on hiring highly skilled professionals with industry-specific experience, particularly given the unique and complex nature of our devices. Given the specialized nature of our business, we must hire highly skilled professionals for certain positions with industry-specific experience. Given the nature of the reverse osmosis desalination industry, the number of qualified candidates for certain positions is limited. Our ability to grow depends on recruiting and retaining skilled employees with relevant experience, competing with larger, often better known companies, and offering competitive total compensation packages. Our failure to retain existing or attract future talented and experienced key personnel could harm our business. ● Our future success depends on our ability to diversify into new markets outside of desalination while continuing to market, enhance, and scale existing desalination products. We believe that developing new products for applications outside of desalination is a necessary strategy to accelerate future growth in our business as we continue to market, enhance, and scale existing desalination products. While new or enhanced products and services have the potential to meet specified needs of new or existing markets, pricing may not meet customer expectations, and our products may not compete favorably with products and services of current or potential competitors. New products may be delayed or cancelled if they do not meet specifications, performance requirements, or quality standards, or perform as expected in a production environment. Product designs also may not scale as expected. We may have difficulty finding new markets for our existing technologies or developing or acquiring new products for new markets. Customers may not accept or be slow to adopt new products and services, and potential new markets may be too costly to penetrate. In addition, we may not be able to offer our products and services that meet customer expectations without decreasing our prices and eroding our margins. We may also have difficulty executing plans to break into new markets, expanding our operations to successfully manufacture new products, or scaling our operations to accommodate increased business. If we are unable to develop competitive new products, open new markets, and scale our business to support increased sales and new markets, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. - 11 - We have hired and promoted individuals to new executive positions and undertaken other activities to pursue new markets beyond desalination. We may incur significant personnel and development expenses in these efforts without assurance as to when or if new products will contribute to revenue or be profitable. ● Our diversification into different fluid flow markets such as oil & gas may not materialize according to our expectations. We have made a substantial investment in research, development, and marketing to execute on our diversification strategy into fluid flow markets such as oil and gas. While we see diversification as core to our growth strategy, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in our efforts. Our model for growth is based on our ability to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new markets, both in terms of geographies and product areas, and to drive broad adoption of the products and services that we develop and market. While we believe that our products will, for example, enable gas processing plant operators to operate at a high level of energy efficiency with minimal downtime, we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience significant downtimes or failures for which our warranty reserves may be inadequate given the lack of historical failure rates associated with new product introductions. We also could be subject to damage claims based on our products against which we may not be able to properly insure. In addition, profitability, if any, in oil and gas may be lower than in our desalination market, and we may not be sufficiently successful in our diversification efforts to recoup investments. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. ● The durable nature of our PX energy recovery devices may reduce or delay potential aftermarket revenue opportunities. Our PX energy recovery devices utilize ceramic components that have to date demonstrated high durability, high corrosion resistance, and long life in seawater reverse osmosis desalination applications. Because most of our PX devices have been installed for a limited number of years, it is difficult to accurately predict their performance or endurance over a longer period of time. In the event that our products are more durable than expected, our opportunity for aftermarket revenue may be deferred. ● Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, our sales are difficult to predict and may vary substantially from quarter to quarter, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate. Our sales efforts involve substantial education of our current and prospective customers about the use and benefits of our energy recovery products. This education process can be time-consuming and typically involves a significant product evaluation process. While the sales cycle for our OEM customers, which are involved with smaller desalination plants, averages one to six months, the average sales cycle for our international engineering, procurement, and construction firm customers, which are involved with larger desalination plants, ranges from 6 to 16 months and has, in some cases, extended up to 24 months. Sales efforts in the oil and gas market segments may be prolonged due in part to customers’ procurement processes and budgetary constraints. These long sales cycles make quarter-by-quarter revenue predictions difficult and results in our investing significant resources well in advance of orders for our products. ● We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of our components. If our suppliers are not able to meet our demand and/or requirements, our business could be harmed. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for vessel housings, stainless steel ports, and alumina powder for our PX energy recovery devices and stainless steel castings and components for our turbochargers and pumps. Our reliance on a limited number of manufacturers for these supplies involves a number of risks, including reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance, manufacturing yields, production costs, and lack of guaranteed production capacity or product supply. In most cases, we do not have long-term supply agreements with these suppliers and instead secure these supplies on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers have no obligation to supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantity, or at any specific price, except as set forth in a particular purchase order. Our requirements may represent a small portion of the total production capacities of these suppliers, and our suppliers may reallocate capacity to other customers, even during periods of high demand for our products. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, product quality issues and delivery delays with our suppliers due to factors such as high industry demand or the inability of our vendors to consistently meet our quality or delivery requirements. If our suppliers were to cancel or materially change their commitments to us or fail to meet quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for our products, we could lose time-sensitive customer orders, be unable to develop or sell our products cost-effectively or on a timely basis, if at all, and have significantly decreased revenue, which would harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may qualify additional suppliers in the future, which would require time and resources. If we do not qualify additional suppliers, we may be exposed to increased risk of capacity shortages due to our dependence on current suppliers. - 12 - ● We are subject to risks related to product defects, which could lead to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provision or result in a significant or a large number of warranty or other claims in any given year. We provide a warranty for certain products for a period of 18 to 30 months and provide up to a five-year warranty for the ceramic components of our PX-branded products. We test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means; however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market, or will replicate the harsh, corrosive, and varied conditions of the desalination and other plants in which they are installed. In addition, certain components of our turbochargers and pumps are custom-made and may not scale or perform as required in production environments. Accordingly, there is a risk that we may have significant warranty claims or breach supply agreements due to product defects. We may incur additional cost of revenue if our warranty provisions do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. If these additional expenses are significant, they could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ● If we are unable to protect our technology or enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could be harmed, and we could be required to incur significant expenses to enforce our rights. Our competitive position depends on our ability to establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and to protect our technology from copying by others. We rely on trade secret, patent, copyright, and trademark laws, as well as confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, all of which may offer only limited protection. We hold a limited number of U.S. patents and patents outside the U.S. that are counterparts to several of the U.S. patents, and when their terms expire, we could become more vulnerable to increased competition. The protection of our intellectual property in some countries may be limited. We also do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, circumvented, or invalidated. Moreover, while we believe our remaining issued patents are essential to the protection of our technology, the rights granted under any of our issued patents or patents that may be issued in the future may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technologies now or in the future. In addition, our granted patents may not prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where intellectual property laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as those in the United States. This may render our patents impaired or useless and ultimately expose us to currently unanticipated competition. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products, trademarks, and other proprietary rights is expensive, difficult, and in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Intellectual property litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business. ● Claims by others that we infringe their proprietary rights could harm our business. Third parties could claim that our technology infringes their intellectual property rights. In addition, we or our customers may be contacted by third parties suggesting that we obtain a license to certain of their intellectual property rights that they may believe we are infringing. We expect that infringement claims against us may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. In addition, to the extent that we gain greater visibility, we believe that we will face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. Any claim of infringement by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment against us could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering our products. In addition, we might be required to seek a license for the use of such intellectual property, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense and may ultimately not be successful. Any of these events could seriously harm our business. Third parties may also assert infringement claims against our customers. Because we generally indemnify our customers if our products infringe the proprietary rights of third parties, any such claims would require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on their behalf in one or more jurisdictions, regardless of the merits of these claims. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers. - 13 - ● We are currently involved in legal proceedings, and may be subject to additional future legal proceedings, that may result in material adverse outcomes. In addition to intellectual property litigation risks discussed above, we are presently involved, and may become involved in the future, in various commercial and other disputes as well as related claims and legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the course of our business. We believe that we have substantial defenses in the matters currently pending; however, the process of settling or litigating claims is subject to uncertainties, and our views of these matters may change in the future. We could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. ● Our business entails significant costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term while demand for our products is variable and subject to downturns, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our business requires investments in facilities, equipment, R&D, and training that are either fixed or difficult to reduce or scale in the short term. At the same time, the market for our products is variable and has experienced downturns due to factors such as economic recessions, increased precipitation, uncertain global financial markets, and political changes, many of which are outside of our control. During periods of reduced product demand, we may experience higher relative costs and excess manufacturing capacity, resulting in high overhead and lower gross profit margins while causing cash flow and profitability to decline. Similarly, although we believe that our existing manufacturing facilities are capable of meeting current demand and demand for the foreseeable future, the continued success of our business depends on our ability to expand our manufacturing, research and development, and testing facilities to meet market needs. If we are unable to respond timely to an increase in demand, our revenue, gross profit margin, cash flow, and net income may be adversely affected. ● If we need additional capital to fund future growth, it may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. We have historically relied on outside financing to fund our operations, capital expenditures, and expansion. In our initial public offering in July 2008, we issued approximately 10,000,000 shares of common stock at $8.50 per share before underwriting discounts and issuing expenses. We may require additional capital from equity or debt financing in the future to fund our operations or respond to competitive pressures or strategic opportunities, such as an acquisition. We may not be able to secure such additional financing on favorable terms or at all. The terms of additional financing may place limits on our financial and operating flexibility. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities, or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new securities that we issue could have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of existing or future holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing on terms satisfactory to us, if and when we require it, our ability to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges or opportunities could be significantly limited. ● If foreign and local government entities no longer guarantee and subsidize, or are willing to engage in, the construction and maintenance of desalination plants and projects, the demand for our products would decline and adversely affect our business. Our products are used in seawater reverse osmosis desalination plants, which are often constructed and maintained with local, regional, or national government guarantees and subsidies, including tax-free bonds. The rate of construction of desalination plants depends on each governing entity's willingness and ability to obtain and allocate funds for such projects. In addition, some desalination projects in the Middle East and North Africa have been funded by budget surpluses resulting from high crude oil and natural gas prices. Since prices for crude oil and natural gas vary, governments in those countries may not have the necessary funding for such projects and may cancel the projects or divert funds allocated for them to other projects. Political unrest, coups, or changes in government administrations, such as recent political changes and unrest in the Middle East, may result in policy or priority changes that may also cause governments to cancel, delay, or re-contract planned or ongoing projects. Government embargoes may also prohibit sales into certain countries. As a result, the demand for our products could decline and negatively affect our revenue base, our overall profitability, and the pace of our expected growth. - 14 - ● Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected flaws or defects that could harm our business and our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition. The manufacture of our products is highly technical and some designs and components of our turbochargers and pumps are custom-made. Our products may contain latent defects or flaws. We test our products prior to commercial release, and during such testing have discovered, and may in the future discover, flaws and defects that need to be resolved prior to release. Resolving these flaws and defects can take a significant amount of time and prevent our technical personnel from working on other important tasks. In addition, our products have contained, and may in the future contain, one or more flaws that were not detected prior to commercial release to our customers. Some flaws in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any flaws or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers, and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort, or breach of warranty. Our contracts with our customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld or, for reasons of good long-term customer relations, we may not be willing to enforce. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. ● Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may adversely affect our operating results. Historically, we have derived a significant portion of our revenue from customers whose seawater reverse osmosis desalination facilities are outside of the United States. Many of these projects are located in emerging growth countries with relatively young or unstable market economies or changing political environments. These countries may be affected significantly by global economic conditions and the liquidity of credit markets. We also rely on sales and technical support personnel stationed in Europe, Asia, and the Middle East, and we expect to continue to add personnel in other countries. Governmental changes; political unrest or reforms; or changes in the business, regulatory, or political environments of the countries in which we sell our products or have staff could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Sales of our products have to date been denominated principally in U.S. Dollars. If the U.S. Dollar strengthens against most other currencies, it will effectively increase the price of our products in the currency of the countries in which our customers are located. This may result in our customers seeking lower-priced suppliers, which could adversely impact our revenue, margins, and operating results. A larger portion of our international revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies in the future, which would subject us to increased risks associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Our international contracts and operations subject us to a variety of additional risks, including: • political and economic uncertainties; • uncertainties related to the application of local contract and other laws, including reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell and service our products in certain foreign markets; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, beginning operations as scheduled, and collecting accounts receivable, especially in emerging markets; • increased travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • competing with non-U.S. companies that are not subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws; • difficulty in attracting, hiring, and retaining qualified personnel; and • instability in the capital markets and banking systems worldwide, especially in developing countries, which may limit the availability of project financing for the construction of desalination plants. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. - 15 - ● Our failure to achieve or maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting in accordance with SEC rules or prevent or detect material misstatements in our annual or interim consolidated financial statements in the future could materially harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As a public company, SEC rules require that we maintain internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and preparation of published financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, in the United States. Accordingly, we are required to document and test our internal controls and procedures to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we may identify material weaknesses and deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in a timely manner. If there are material weaknesses or deficiencies in our internal control, we will not be able to conclude that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting, or our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, and investors may lose confidence in our financial information, which in turn could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. We may also be required to restate our financial statements from prior periods. In addition, testing and maintaining internal control will require increased management time and resources. Any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could impair the success of our business and harm our financial results, and an investor could lose all or a significant portion of his/her investment. If we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. ● Our past acquisition and future acquisitions could disrupt our business, impact our margins, cause dilution to our stockholders, or harm our financial condition and operating results. We acquired privately-held Pump Engineering, LLC in late 2009, and in the future, we may invest in other companies, technologies, or assets. We may not realize the expected benefits from our past or future acquisitions. We may not be able to find other suitable acquisition candidates, and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot ensure that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive or financial position or that they will not be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets, investors, or the media. Acquisitions could also result in shareholder dilution or significant acquisition-related charges for restructuring, share-based compensation, and the amortization of purchased technology and intangible assets. Expenses resulting from impairment of acquired goodwill, intangible assets, and purchased technology could also increase over time if the fair value of those assets decreases. A future change in market conditions, a downturn in our business, or a long-term decline in the quoted market price of our stock may result in a reduction of the fair value of acquisition-related assets. Any such impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, when we make an acquisition, we may have to assume some or all of that entity's liabilities, which may include liabilities that are not fully known at the time of the acquisition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses. If we make future acquisitions, we may require additional cash or use shares of our common stock as payment, which would cause dilution to our existing stockholders. Acquisitions entail a number of risks that could harm our ability to achieve their anticipated benefits. We could have difficulties integrating and retaining key management and other personnel, aligning product plans and sales strategies, coordinating research and development efforts, supporting customer relationships, aligning operations, and integrating accounting, order processing, purchasing, and other support services. Since acquired companies have different accounting and other operational practices, we may have difficulty harmonizing order processing, accounting, billing, resource management, information technology, and other systems company-wide. We may also have to invest more than anticipated in product or process improvements. Especially with acquisitions of privately-held or non-U.S. companies, we may face challenges developing and maintaining internal controls consistent with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and U.S. public accounting standards. Acquisitions may also disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, and disrupt other strategic, research and development, marketing, or sales efforts. Geographic and time zone differences and disparate corporate cultures may increase the difficulties and risks of an acquisition. If integration of our acquired businesses or assets is not successful or disrupts our ongoing operations, acquisitions may increase our expenses, harm our competitive position, adversely impact our operating results and financial condition, and fail to achieve anticipated revenue, cost, competitive, or other objectives. - 16 - ● Insiders and principal stockholders will likely have significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers, and other principal stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, a substantial amount of our outstanding common stock. Although they do not have majority control of the outstanding stock, these stockholders will likely have significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as a merger or other sale of our company or its assets. ● Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company and may affect the trading price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: • authorize our Board of Directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our Board of Directors, the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, or the president; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our Board of Directors; • establish that our Board of Directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II, and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; • specify that no stockholder is permitted to cumulate votes at any election of directors; and • require a super-majority of votes to amend certain of the above mentioned provisions. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law regulating corporate takeovers. Section 203 generally prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder subject to certain exceptions. ● We may experience reputational damage if pilot projects for oil and gas customers do not materialize or perform as we expect or we are unable to use these pilot projects as showcases to drive new business and revenue growth. Entry into new market segments such as oil and gas requires proof-of-concept and pilot projects to demonstrate commercial viability of the solution offering to potential customers and other market participants. If we are unable to penetrate the market with these projects or our solutions do not perform as expected, our reputation may suffer. Additionally, if we are unable, for any reason, to use initial projects as customer showcases, it may affect our growth into these markets. Issues with facility access, confidentiality, or overall project performance may affect our ability to showcase any of our projects to new potential customers, which would adversely affect revenue growth and operating results. ● New regulations related to conflict minerals could adversely impact our business. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains provisions to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of certain minerals, known as conflict minerals, originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and adjoining countries. As a result, in August 2012, the SEC adopted annual disclosure and reporting requirements for those companies who use conflict minerals mined from the DRC and adjoining countries in their products. Disclosure requirements for the year 2013 are due in May of 2014. - 17 - Based on our purchasing policy and supplier selection, it is considered unlikely that any conflict minerals are used in the manufacturing of our products. Nevertheless, we are continuing a reasonable country of origin inquiry and may need to implement a program of due diligence on the source and chain of custody for conflict minerals, if required. There are costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including loss of customers and potential changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of our verification activities. The implementation of these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in our products. As there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” minerals, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain necessary materials from such suppliers in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict-free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products through the procedures we have implemented. ● Business interruptions may damage our facilities or those of our suppliers. Our operations and those of our suppliers may be vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, flood, and other natural disasters, as well as power loss, telecommunications failure, and other events beyond our control. Our facilities in California are located near major earthquake faults and have experienced earthquakes in the past. If a natural disaster occurs, our ability to conduct our operations could be seriously impaired, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We cannot be sure that the insurance we maintain against general business interruptions will be adequate to cover all of our losses. ● We may have risks associated with security of our information technology systems. We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our information technology systems and data. Despite significant efforts to create security barriers to such systems, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. There is a risk of industrial espionage, cyber-attacks, misuse or theft of information or assets, or damage to assets by people who may gain unauthorized access to our facilities, systems, or information. Such cybersecurity breaches, misuse, or other disruptions could lead to the disclosure of confidential information, improper usage and distribution of our intellectual property, theft, manipulation and destruction of private and proprietary data, and production downtimes. Although we actively employ measures to prevent unauthorized access to our information systems, preventing unauthorized use or infringement of our rights is inherently difficult. These events could adversely affect our financial results and any legal action in connection with any such cybersecurity breach could be costly and time-consuming and may divert management's attention and adversely affect the market's perception of us and our products. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 