Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks. Set forth below are certain of the more important risks that we face and that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results. Our business also could be affected by other risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe are immaterial to our business.Risks Relating to our BusinessWe may not realize the anticipated benefits of the NewPage acquisition. The rationale for the NewPage acquisition is, in large part, predicated on the ability to realize cost savings through the combination of the two companies. Achieving these cost savings is dependent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the NewPage acquisition could have an adverse effect upon our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. The NewPage acquisition involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. The success of the NewPage acquisition will depend, in large part, on the ability to realize the synergies expected to be produced from integrating NewPage’s businesses with Verso’s existing business. Although Verso has identified approximately $175 million of pre-tax annualized synergies that are expected to be realized during the first 18 months after the consummation of the NewPage acquisition, there can be no assurance as to when or the extent to which the combined company will be able to realize these increased revenues, cost savings or other benefits. Integration may also be difficult, unpredictable, and subject to delay because of possible company culture conflicts and different opinions on technical decisions and product roadmaps. We must integrate or, in some cases, replace numerous systems, including those involving management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance, many of which are dissimilar. In some instances, Verso and NewPage have served the same customers, and some customers may decide that it is desirable to have additional or different suppliers. Such difficulties associated with integration, among others, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business. Our operating results after the NewPage acquisition may materially differ from the pro forma information presented in our filings.Our operating results after the NewPage acquisition may be materially different from those shown in the pro forma information in our filings including the previously filed joint proxy and information statement/prospectus, which represents only a combination of Verso’s historical results with those of NewPage. The assumptions contained therein are based on Verso’s estimates, but they involve risks, uncertainties, projections and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements after the NewPage acquisition to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied. Any of the assumptions could be inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the pro forma financial results or estimated synergies or cost savings will prove to be accurate or that the objectives and plans expressed will be achieved. Any synergies or cost savings that are realized from the NewPage acquisition may differ materially from these estimates. Verso and NewPage cannot provide any assurances that expected synergies will be achieved or cost-savings will be completed as anticipated or at all. Furthermore, the acquisition, financing, integration, restructuring and transaction costs related to the NewPage acquisition could be higher or lower than currently estimated, depending on how difficult it is to integrate Verso’s business with that of NewPage. We incurred significant costs in connection with the NewPage acquisition and we will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the integration of Verso and NewPage into a combined company, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant costs in connection with the NewPage acquisition, including the fees of our professional advisers. We also will incur integration and restructuring costs following the completion of the NewPage acquisition as our operations are integrated with NewPage’s operations. While management believes that the synergies are achievable, the synergies anticipated to arise from the NewPage acquisition may not be achieved within the time frame expected or at all, and if achieved, may not be sufficient to offset the costs associated with the NewPage acquisition. Unanticipated costs, or the failure to achieve expected synergies, may have an adverse impact on the results of our operations. The integration process will be complex, costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts will be successful. The difficulties of integrating the businesses may include: •employee redeployment, relocation or severance; 11•integration of manufacturing, logistics, information, communications, and other systems; •combination of research and development teams and processes; •failure to retain customers or arrangements with suppliers; and •other unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. Integrating our legacy business with that of NewPage may divert the attention of management away from operations. The integration of Verso’s and NewPage’s operations, products and personnel may place a significant burden on management and other internal resources. Matters related to the integration may require commitments of time and resources that could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that might have been beneficial to us. The diversion of management’s attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm our business, financial conditions and operating results. As a result of the NewPage acquisition, we may not be able to retain key personnel or recruit additional qualified personnel, which could materially affect our business and require the incurrence of substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel.We are highly dependent on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. As a result of the NewPage acquisition, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel. Any failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and require the incurrence of substantial additional costs to recruit replacement personnel.The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Competition is based largely on price. We compete with foreign producers, some of which are lower cost producers than we are or are subsidized by certain foreign governments. We also face competition from numerous North American coated paper manufacturers. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and are subject to fewer environmental and governmental regulations. Furthermore, some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do or may be better positioned than we are to compete for certain opportunities. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively in the markets we serve.Competition could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the following factors will affect our ability to compete:• product availability;• the quality of our products;• our breadth of product offerings;• our ability to maintain plant efficiencies and to achieve high operating rates;• manufacturing costs per ton;• customer service and our ability to distribute our products on time; and• the availability and/or cost of wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy and other raw materials and labor.12We have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers. Increases in our costs or decreases in demand and prices for printing and writing paper could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our earnings are sensitive to price changes in coated paper. Fluctuations in paper prices (and coated paper prices in particular) historically have had a direct effect on our net income (loss) and Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, or “EBITDA,” for several reasons:•Market prices for paper products are a function of supply and demand, factors over which we have limited control. We therefore have limited ability to control the pricing of our products. Market prices of grade No. 3, 60 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated freesheet paper pricing, have fluctuated since 2000 from a high of $1,100 per ton to a low of $705 per ton. In addition, market prices of grade No. 5, 34 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated groundwood paper pricing, have fluctuated between a high of $1,120 per ton to a low of $795 per ton over the same period. Prices are expected to recover in 2015, but we do not expect prices in 2015 to return to the levels they were at in 2008 before they declined. Because market conditions determine the price for our paper products, the price for our products could fall below our cash production costs.•Market prices for paper products typically are not directly affected by raw material costs or other costs of sales, and consequently we have limited ability to pass through increases in these raw materials and/or other sales costs to our customers absent increases in the market price. Thus, even though our costs may increase, we may not have the ability to increase the prices for our products, or the prices for our products may decline. •The manufacturing of coated paper is highly capital-intensive and a large portion of our operating costs are fixed. Additionally, paper machines are large, complex machines that operate more efficiently when operated continuously. Consequently, both we and our competitors typically continue to run our machines whenever marginal sales exceed the marginal costs, adversely impacting prices at times of lower demand.Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on (a) our cost structure, (b) changes in the prices of raw materials, electricity, energy and fuel, which will represent a large component of our operating costs and will fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control and (c) general conditions in the paper market including the demand for paper products, the amount of foreign imports, the amount spent on advertising, the circulation of magazines and catalogs, the use of electronic readers and other devices, and postal rates. Any one or more of these economic conditions could affect our sales and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.The paper industry is cyclical and North American demand for certain paper products tends to decline during a weak U.S. economy. Fluctuations in supply and demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The paper industry is a commodity market to a significant extent and is subject to cyclical market pressures. North American demand for coated paper products tends to decline during a weak U.S. economy. Accordingly, general economic conditions and demand for magazines and catalogs may have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products, which may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign overcapacity also could result in an increase in the supply of paper products available in the North American market. For example, there is significant hardwood capacity coming on line in Brazil in 2014 that is expected to impact pricing, and there is significant excess capacity in Europe, which has led to increased exports from Europe into North America, which has also affected pricing. An increased supply of paper available in North America could put downward pressure on prices and/or cause us to lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Developments in alternative media adversely affect the demand for our products.Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage, and the internet have had and likely will continue to have adverse effects on traditional print media, including the use of and demand for our products and those of our customers. Our magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use (both for content and advertising), and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, particularly the internet, instead of paper made by us. As the use of these alternative media grows, the demand for our paper products likely will decline.13Rising postal costs could weaken demand for our paper products.A significant portion of paper is used in periodicals, magazines, catalogs, fliers and other promotional mailings. Many of these materials are distributed through the mail. Future increases in the cost of postage could reduce the frequency of mailings, reduce the number of pages in magazine and advertising materials, and/or cause advertisers, catalog and magazine publishers to use alternate methods to distribute their materials. Any of the foregoing could decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Furthermore, we may have credit exposure to these customers through extension of trade credits. Our largest customers, Quad/Graphics, Inc. and Central National-Gottesman, Inc. accounted for approximately 14% and 10%, respectively, of our net sales in 2014. In 2014, our ten largest customers (including Quad/Graphics, Inc. and Central National-Gottesman, Inc.) accounted for approximately 61% of our net sales, while our ten largest end-users accounted for approximately 26% of our net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of these customers or other customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as could significant customer disputes regarding shipments, price, quality, or other matters.Furthermore, we extend trade credit to certain of these customers to facilitate the purchase of our products and we rely on these customers’ creditworthiness and ability to obtain credit from lenders. Accordingly, a bankruptcy or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of any of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, due to a reduction in purchases, a longer collection cycle or an inability to collect accounts receivable.We are involved in continuous manufacturing processes with a high degree of fixed costs. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities may affect our operating performance. We run our paper machines on a nearly continuous basis for maximum efficiency. Any downtime at any of our paper mills, including as a result of or in connection with planned maintenance and capital expenditure projects, results in unabsorbed fixed costs that could negatively affect our results of operations for the period in which we experience the downtime. Due to the extreme operating conditions inherent in some of our manufacturing processes, we may incur unplanned business interruptions from time to time and, as a result, we may not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our operational needs. In addition, the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including snow storms, forest fires, and flooding. Such natural disasters could cause our mills to stop running, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, during periods of weak demand for paper products, such as the current market, or periods of rising costs, we have experienced and may in the future experience market-related downtime, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our operations require substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our required capital expenditures. Our business is capital intensive, and we incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain our equipment and comply with environmental laws, as well as to enhance the efficiency of our operations. Our total capital expenditures were $42.0 million in 2014. We anticipate that our available cash resources, including amounts under our credit facilities, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures for at least the next year. We may also dispose of certain of our non-core assets in order to obtain additional liquidity. However, if we require additional funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our facilities and equipment as we require or as necessary to ensure environmental compliance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.If we are unable to obtain energy or raw materials, including petroleum-based chemicals at favorable prices, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We purchase energy, wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals and other raw materials from third parties. We may experience shortages of energy supplies or raw materials or be forced to seek alternative sources of supply. If we are forced to seek alternative sources of supply, we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. The prices for energy and many of our raw materials, especially petroleum-based chemicals, have recently been volatile and are expected to remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their 14chemicals may, due to a supply shortage and cost increase, ration the amount of chemicals available to us and/or we may not be able to obtain the chemicals we need to operate our business at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, certain specialty chemicals that we currently purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us in the future, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all. The supply of energy or raw materials may be adversely affected by, among other things, natural disasters or an outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, and, in particular, events in the Middle East or weather events such as hurricanes could result in a real or perceived shortage of oil or natural gas, which could result in an increase in energy or chemical prices. In addition, wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups, litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity, and the response to and prevention of wildfires and campaigns or other measures by environmental activists also could affect timber supplies. The availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice and wind storms, droughts, floods, and other natural and man-made causes. Additionally, due to increased fuel costs, suppliers, distributors and freight carriers have charged fuel surcharges, which have increased our costs. Any significant shortage or significant increase in our energy or raw material costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products due to market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Any disruption in the supply of energy or raw materials also could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. We are expected to have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers absent increases in market prices for our products, material increases in the cost of our raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may be required to post letters of credit or other financial assurance obligations with certain of our energy and other suppliers, which could limit our financial flexibility.We may not realize certain projected synergies, productivity enhancements or improvements in costs. As part of our business strategy, we are in the process of identifying opportunities to improve profitability by reducing costs and enhancing productivity. For example, through our continuous process improvement program, we have implemented focused programs to optimize material and energy sourcing and usage, reduce repair costs and control overhead. We will continue to utilize the process improvement program to drive further cost reductions and operating improvements in our mill system, and have targeted additional profitability enhancements in the next twelve months. Any synergies, cost savings or productivity enhancements that we expect to realize from such efforts may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, any synergies, cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in pricing or volume, or through increases in other expenses, including raw material, energy or personnel. We cannot assure you that these initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all. Our calculation of pro forma Adjusted EBITDA includes adjustments for cost savings expected to be realized from these initiatives. Although our management believes these estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, investors should not place undue reliance upon the calculation of pro forma Adjusted EBITDA given how it is calculated and the possibility that the underlying estimates and assumptions may ultimately not reflect actual results.Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management.We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel.15Work stoppages and slowdowns and legal action by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 4% of our employees were represented by labor unions at one of our mills, which was classified as held for sale (see 