Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to various risks. Set forth below are certain of the more important risks that we face and that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our historical results. Our business also could be affected by other risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe are immaterial to our business.Risks Relating to the BusinessThe industry in which we operate is highly competitive. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Competition is based largely on price. We compete with foreign producers, some of which are lower cost producers than we are or are subsidized by certain foreign governments. We also face competition from numerous North American coated paper manufacturers. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material and labor costs and are subject to fewer environmental and governmental regulations. Furthermore, some of these competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do or may be better positioned than we are to compete for certain opportunities.Competition could cause us to lower our prices or lose sales to competitors, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the following factors will affect our ability to compete:• product availability;• the quality of our products;• our breadth of product offerings;• our ability to maintain plant efficiencies and to achieve high operating rates;• manufacturing costs per ton;• customer service and our ability to distribute our products on time; and• the availability and/or cost of wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals, energy and other raw materials and labor.We have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers. Increases in our costs or decreases in coated paper prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our earnings are sensitive to price changes in coated paper. Fluctuations in paper prices (and coated paper prices in particular) historically have had a direct effect on our net income (loss) and Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, or “EBITDA,” for several reasons:•Market prices for paper products are a function of supply and demand, factors over which we have limited control. We therefore have limited ability to control the pricing of our products. Market prices of grade No. 3, 60 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated freesheet paper pricing, have fluctuated since 2000 from a high of $1,100 per ton to a low of $705 per ton. In addition, market prices of grade No. 5, 34 lb. basis weight paper, which is an industry benchmark for coated groundwood paper pricing, have fluctuated between a high of $1,120 per ton to a low of $795 per ton over the same period. Prices may not improve significantly in 2014, and we do not expect prices in 2014 to return to the levels they were at in 2008 before they declined. Because market conditions determine the price for our paper products, the price for our products could fall below our cash production costs.•Market prices for paper products typically are not directly affected by raw material costs or other costs of sales, and consequently we have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers absent increases in the market price. Thus, even though our costs may increase, we may not have the ability to increase the prices for our products, or the prices for our products may decline. •The manufacturing of coated paper is highly capital-intensive and a large portion of our operating costs are fixed. Additionally, paper machines are large, complex machines that operate more efficiently when operated 11continuously. Consequently, both we and our competitors typically continue to run our machines whenever marginal sales exceed the marginal costs, adversely impacting prices at times of lower demand.Therefore, our ability to achieve acceptable margins is principally dependent on (a) our cost structure, (b) changes in the prices of raw materials, electricity, energy and fuel, which will represent a large component of our operating costs and will fluctuate based upon factors beyond our control and (c) general conditions in the paper market including the demand for paper products, the amount of foreign imports, the amount spent on advertising, the circulation of magazines and catalogs, the use of electronic readers and other devices, and postal rates. Any one or more of these economic conditions could affect our sales and operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Developments in alternative media could adversely affect the demand for our products.Trends in advertising, electronic data transmission and storage, and the internet have had and could have further adverse effects on traditional print media, including the use of and demand for our products and those of our customers, but neither the timing nor the extent of those trends can be predicted with certainty. Our magazine and catalog publishing customers may increasingly use (both for content and advertising), and compete with businesses that use, other forms of media and advertising and electronic data transmission and storage, particularly the internet, instead of paper made by us. As the use of these alternatives grows, demand for our paper products could decline.If we are unable to obtain energy or raw materials, including petroleum-based chemicals at favorable prices, or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We purchase energy, wood fiber, market pulp, chemicals and other raw materials from third parties. We may experience shortages of energy supplies or raw materials or be forced to seek alternative sources of supply. If we are forced to seek alternative sources of supply, we may not be able to do so on terms as favorable as our current terms or at all. The prices for energy and many of our raw materials, especially petroleum-based chemicals, have recently been volatile and are expected to remain volatile for the foreseeable future. Chemical suppliers that use petroleum-based products in the manufacture of their chemicals may, due to a supply shortage and cost increase, ration the amount of chemicals available to us and/or we may not be able to obtain the chemicals we need to operate our business at favorable prices, if at all. In addition, certain specialty chemicals that we currently purchase are available only from a small number of suppliers. If any of these suppliers were to cease operations or cease doing business with us in the future, we may be unable to obtain such chemicals at favorable prices, if at all. The supply of energy or raw materials may be adversely affected by, among other things, natural disasters or an outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power, and, in particular, events in the Middle East or weather events such as hurricanes could result in a real or perceived shortage of oil or natural gas, which could result in an increase in energy or chemical prices. In addition, wood fiber is a commodity and prices historically have been cyclical. The primary source for wood fiber is timber. Environmental litigation and regulatory developments have caused, and may cause in the future, significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest in Canada and the United States. In addition, future domestic or foreign legislation, litigation advanced by aboriginal groups, litigation concerning the use of timberlands, the protection of endangered species, the promotion of forest biodiversity, and the response to and prevention of wildfires and campaigns or other measures by environmental activists also could affect timber supplies. The availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire and fire prevention, insect infestation, disease, ice and wind storms, droughts, floods, and other natural and man-made causes. Additionally, due to increased fuel costs, suppliers, distributors and freight carriers have charged fuel surcharges, which have increased our costs. Any significant shortage or significant increase in our energy or raw material costs in circumstances where we cannot raise the price of our products due to market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Any disruption in the supply of energy or raw materials also could affect our ability to meet customer demand in a timely manner and could harm our reputation. We are expected to have limited ability to pass through increases in our costs to our customers absent increases in market prices for our products, material increases in the cost of our raw materials could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may be required to post letters of credit or other financial assurance obligations with certain of our energy and other suppliers, which could limit our financial flexibility.We are involved in continuous manufacturing processes with a high degree of fixed costs. Any interruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities may affect our operating performance. 12We seek to run our paper machines on a nearly continuous basis for maximum efficiency. Any downtime at any of our paper mills, including as a result of or in connection with planned maintenance and capital expenditure projects, results in unabsorbed fixed costs that could negatively affect our results of operations for the period in which we experience the downtime. Due to the extreme operating conditions inherent in some of our manufacturing processes, we may incur unplanned business interruptions from time to time and, as a result, we may not generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our operational needs. In addition, the geographic areas where our production is located and where we conduct our business may be affected by natural disasters, including snow storms, forest fires, and flooding. Such natural disasters could cause our mills to stop running, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, during periods of weak demand for paper products, such as the current market, or periods of rising costs, we have experienced and may in the future experience market-related downtime, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.Our operations require substantial ongoing capital expenditures, and we may not have adequate capital resources to fund all of our required capital expenditures. Our business is capital intensive, and we incur capital expenditures on an ongoing basis to maintain our equipment and comply with environmental laws, as well as to enhance the efficiency of our operations. Our total capital expenditures were $40.7 million in 2013, net of governmental grants of $13.7 million. We currently estimate our capital expenditures to range between $40 million and $50 million during 2014. We anticipate that our available cash resources, including amounts under our credit facilities, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating needs and capital expenditures for at least the next year. We may also dispose of certain of our non-core assets in order to obtain additional liquidity. However, if we require additional funds to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to obtain them on favorable terms, or at all. If we cannot maintain or upgrade our facilities and equipment as we require or as necessary to ensure environmental compliance, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We depend on a small number of customers for a significant portion of our business. Furthermore, we may have credit exposure to these customers through extension of trade credits. Our largest customers, Quad/Graphics, Inc. and Central National-Gottesman, Inc. accounted for approximately 12% and 10%, respectively, of our net sales in 2013. In 2013, our ten largest customers (including Quad/Graphics, Inc. and Central National-Gottesman, Inc.) accounted for approximately 62% of our net sales, while our ten largest end-users accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales. The loss of, or reduction in orders from, any of these customers or other customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, as could significant customer disputes regarding shipments, price, quality, or other matters.Furthermore, we extend trade credit to certain of these customers to facilitate the purchase of our products and we rely on these customers’ creditworthiness and ability to obtain credit from lenders. Accordingly, a bankruptcy or a significant deterioration in the financial condition of any of these significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, due to a reduction in purchases, a longer collection cycle or an inability to collect accounts receivable. We may not realize certain productivity enhancements or improvements in costs. As part of our business strategy, we are in the process of identifying opportunities to improve profitability by reducing costs and enhancing productivity. For example, through our continuous process improvement program, we have implemented focused programs to optimize material and energy sourcing and usage, reduce repair costs and control overhead. We will continue to utilize the process improvement program to drive further cost reductions and operating improvements in our mill system, and have targeted additional profitability enhancements in the next twelve months. Any cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize from such efforts may differ materially from our estimates. In addition, any cost savings or productivity enhancements that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in pricing or volume, or through increases in other expenses, including raw material, energy or personnel. We cannot assure you that these initiatives will be completed as anticipated or that the benefits we expect will be achieved on a timely basis or at all. Our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA includes adjustments for cost savings expected to be realized from these initiatives. Although our management believes these estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, investors should not place undue reliance upon the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA given how it is calculated and the possibility that the underlying estimates and assumptions may ultimately not reflect actual results.13Rising postal costs could weaken demand for our paper products.A significant portion of paper is used in periodicals, magazines, catalogs, fliers and other promotional mailings. Many of these materials are distributed through the mail. Future increases in the cost of postage could reduce the frequency of mailings, reduce the number of pages in magazine and advertising materials, and/or cause advertisers, catalog and magazine publishers to use alternate methods to distribute their materials. The U.S. Postal Service has announced rate increases for 2014 that are significantly above the rate of inflation to offset prior losses. Any of the foregoing could decrease the demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.Our business may suffer if we do not retain our senior management.We depend on our senior management. The loss of services of members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business until suitable replacements can be found. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in these positions and we may be unable to locate or employ qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, our future success requires us to continue to attract and retain competent personnel.A portion of our employees are unionized. Wage and benefit increases and work stoppages and slowdowns by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 23% of our employees were represented by labor unions at one of our mills. We have three collective bargaining agreements with the labor unions at that site. We may become subject to material cost increases or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. This could increase expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, although we believe we have good relations with our employees, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future. Any of these factors could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.The failure of our information technology and other business support systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to effectively monitor and control our operations depends to a large extent on the proper functioning of our information technology and other business support systems. If our information technology and other business support systems were to fail, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on third parties for certain transportation services.We rely primarily on third parties for transportation of our products to our customers and transportation of our raw materials to us, in particular, by truck and train. If any third-party transportation provider fails to deliver our products in a timely manner, we may be unable to sell them at full value. Similarly, if any transportation provider fails to deliver raw materials to us in a timely manner, we may be unable to manufacture our products on a timely basis. Shipments of products and raw materials may be delayed due to weather conditions, strikes or other events. Any failure of a third-party transportation provider to deliver raw materials or products in a timely manner could harm our reputation, negatively impact our customer relationships and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis could be adversely affected by the lack of adequate availability of transportation services, especially rail capacity, whether because of work stoppages or otherwise. Furthermore, we may experience increases in the cost of our transportation services, including as a result of rising fuel costs and surcharges (primarily in diesel fuel). If we are not able to pass these increased costs through to our customers, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.14We are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs or other liabilities upon us and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We are subject to a wide range of federal, state, regional, and local general and industry-specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions (including greenhouse gases and hazardous air pollutants), wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal, site remediation and natural resources. Compliance with these laws and regulations, and permits issued thereunder, is a significant factor in our business and may be subject to the same or even increased scrutiny and enforcement actions by regulators. We have made, and will continue to make, significant expenditures to comply with these requirements and permits, which may impose increasingly more stringent standards over time as they are renewed or modified by the applicable governmental authorities. In addition, we handle and dispose of wastes arising from our mill operations and operate a number of on-site landfills to handle that waste. We are required to maintain financial assurance (in the form of letters of credit and other similar instruments) for the projected cost of closure and post-closure care for these landfill operations. We could be subject to potentially significant fines, penalties, criminal sanctions, plant shutdowns, or interruptions in operations for any failure to comply with applicable environmental, health and safety laws, regulations and permits. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at real property, may be held liable for the full cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former paper mills, other properties or other locations where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, wastes.A 2007 decision of the United States Supreme Court held that greenhouse gases are subject to regulation under the Clean Air Act. The Environmental Protection Agency, or “EPA,” has subsequently issued regulations applicable to us that require monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions. The EPA has also issued regulations that require certain new and modified air emissions sources to control their greenhouse gas emissions, which may have a material effect on our operations. The United States Congress has in the past, and may in the future, consider legislation which would also regulate greenhouse gas emissions. It is possible that we could become subject to federal, state, regional, local, or supranational legislation related to climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, cap-and-trade or other emissions.On January 31, 2013, the EPA published its “National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters.” The standards, which are technology-based standards that require the use of Maximum Achievable Control Technology or “MACT” for major sources to comply and is referred to as the “Boiler MACT” rule, govern emissions of air toxics from boilers and process heaters at industrial facilities. Certain of our boilers are subject to the new standards, and we may be required to limit our emissions and/or install additional pollution controls. In addition, on September 11, 2012, the EPA amended its “National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from the Pulp and Paper Industry,” which is likewise a MACT standard that specifically governs emissions of air toxics from pulp and paper facilities. Compliance costs related to recent EPA rule changes could be material and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Lenders under our credit facilities may not fund their commitments. Although the lenders under our revolving credit facilities are well-diversified, there can be no assurance that deterioration in the credit markets or overall economy will not affect the ability of our lenders to meet their funding commitments. If a lender fails to honor its commitment under the revolving credit facilities, that portion of the credit facilities will be unavailable to the extent that the lender’s commitment is not replaced by a new commitment from an alternate lender.Additionally, our lenders have the ability to transfer their commitments to other institutions, and the risk that committed funds may not be available under distressed market conditions could be exacerbated if consolidation of the commitments under our revolving credit facilities or among its lenders were to occur.Litigation could be costly and harmful to our business.We are involved from time to time, and may currently be involved in, claims and legal proceedings relating to contractual, employment, environmental, intellectual property and other matters incidental to the conduct of our business. Although we do not believe that any currently pending claims or legal proceedings are likely to result in an unfavorable outcome that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations, it is possible that such claims and legal proceedings could result in unfavorable outcomes that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.15Risks Relating to Our IndebtednessOur substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt, and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our indebtedness. We are a highly leveraged company. As of December 31, 2013, the principal amount of Verso Paper’s total indebtedness was $1,241.3 million. The total amount of payments Verso Paper will need to make on its outstanding long-term indebtedness for each of the next three fiscal years is $147.4 million, $131.9 million, and $267.8 million, respectively (assuming the current prevailing interest rate on our outstanding floating rate indebtedness remains the same). As of December 31, 2013, the principal amount of Verso Holdings’ total indebtedness was $1,264.6 million (including a $23.3 million loan from Verso Finance Holdings to Chase NMTC Verso Investment Fund). The total amount of payments Verso Holdings will need to make on its outstanding long-term indebtedness for each of the next three fiscal years is $148.9 million, $133.4 million, and $269.3 million, respectively (assuming the current prevailing interest rate on our outstanding floating rate indebtedness remains the same). Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including:• increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions;•requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, and other general corporate purposes;•increasing our vulnerability to, and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate;•exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our asset based revolving credit facility ("ABL Facility") and our cash flow facility ("Cash Flow Facility") and our Second Priority Senior Secured Floating Rate Notes are subject to variable rates of interest;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and •limiting our ability to borrow additional funds.The indenture governing our existing notes, ABL Facility and Cash Flow Facility contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. Our ability to generate net income will depend upon various factors that may be beyond our control. A portion of our debt bears variable rates of interest so our interest expense could increase further in the future. We may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay cash interest on our debt or be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments to pay dividends.We will require a significant amount of cash to service our indebtedness and make planned capital expenditures. Our ability to generate cash or refinance our indebtedness depends on many factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash flow in the future and our ability to borrow under our ABL Facility and our Cash Flow Facility, to the extent of available borrowings. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If adverse regional and national economic conditions persist, worsen, or fail to improve significantly, we could experience decreased revenues from our operations attributable to decreases in wholesale and consumer spending levels and could fail to generate sufficient cash to fund our liquidity needs or fail to satisfy the restrictive covenants and borrowing limitations that we are subject to under our indebtedness.16Based on our current and expected level of operations, we believe our cash flow from operations, available cash, and available borrowings under our ABL Facility and our Cash Flow Facility will be adequate to meet our future liquidity needs for at least the next year.We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our ABL Facility and our Cash Flow Facility, or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.Restrictive covenants in the instruments governing our debt securities and credit agreements may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. The indentures governing our notes, our ABL Facility, and our Cash Flow Facility limit our ability, among other things, to: •incur additional indebtedness;•pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our stock;•prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain of our indebtedness;•make investments;•sell assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries;•enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends;•consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets;•enter into transactions with our affiliates; and•incur liens.The Cash Flow Facility requires us to maintain a maximum total net first-lien leverage ratio of not more than 3.50 to 1.00 at any time that any portion of the facility is drawn (including outstanding letters of credit). In addition, the ABL Facility requires us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio at any time when the average availability (defined as the lesser of the availability under the ABL Facility and the borrowing base at such time, net of any unrestricted cash) is less than the greater of (a) 10% of the lesser of (i) the borrowing base at such time and (ii) the aggregate amount of the ABL Facility commitments at such time, and (b) $10.0 million. In that event, we must satisfy a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. The ABL Facility also contains certain other customary affirmative covenants and events of default. As of December 31, 2013, we were not subject to the above described financial maintenance covenants. A breach of any of these restrictive covenants could result in a default under the instruments governing our debt securities and credit agreements. If a default occurs, the holders of these instruments may elect to declare all borrowings thereunder outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under our Cash Flow Facility and the ABL Facility would also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness when due or declared due, the lenders thereunder will also have the right to proceed against the collateral pledged to them to secure the indebtedness. If such indebtedness were to be accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full our secured indebtedness and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.Despite our current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage.We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future because the terms of the instruments governing our debt securities and credit agreements do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from doing so. In addition, subject to covenant compliance and certain conditions, our ABL Facility and our Cash Flow Facility permit borrowing of up to approximately an additional $140.7 million (as of December 31, 2013). If new indebtedness is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify.17A downgrade in our debt ratings could result in increased interest and other financial expenses related to future borrowings, and could further restrict our access to additional capital or trade credit.Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service maintain credit ratings for us. Each of these ratings is currently below investment grade. Any decision by these or other ratings agencies to downgrade such ratings in the future could result in increased interest and other financial expenses relating to our future borrowings, and could restrict our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms. In addition, any further downgrade could restrict our access to, and negatively impact the terms of, trade credit extended by our suppliers of raw materials.Our indebtedness will increase substantially upon the consummation of the Merger.If the Merger is consummated, we expect to incur substantial additional indebtedness to, among other things, fund the consideration paid to NewPage’s existing equity holders in connection with the Merger (see Item 7 for further information regarding the Merger). This new indebtedness is expected to include up to $650 million in aggregate principal amount of new 11.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2019, or "New First Lien Notes," and up to $750 million in borrowings under NewPage’s term loan facility, which will be used to pay the cash portion of the consideration with respect to the Merger and was used to refinance NewPage’s existing $500 million term loan. The combined company may also incur additional indebtedness in the future for corporate purposes. Any borrowings will require the combined company to use a portion of its cash flow to service principal and interest payments and thus will limit the free cash flow available for other desirable business opportunities. We cannot guarantee sufficient cash flow from operations to pay its indebtedness and fund its additional liquidity needs. Risks Relating to Verso Paper's Common StockOur common stock may cease to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange.Our common stock is currently listed on the New York Stock Exchange, or the “NYSE,” under the symbol “VRS.” On February 14, 2014, the NYSE notified us that it has accepted our plan to regain compliance with the NYSE’s market capitalization continued listing standard. As previously disclosed, the NYSE notified us on December 16, 2013, that we had fallen below the NYSE’s continued listing standard requiring that we maintain an average market capitalization over a consecutive 30 trading-day period of at least $50 million or stockholders’ equity of at least $50 million. As permitted by the NYSE’s rules, we recently submitted to the NYSE a plan to regain compliance with the market capitalization standard. With the NYSE’s acceptance of the plan, we have until February 21, 2015, in which to regain compliance. In the meantime, our common stock will continue to be traded on the NYSE, subject to ongoing monitoring by the NYSE and our compliance with all other applicable NYSE requirements. If we are unable to satisfy the requirements of the NYSE for continued listing, our common stock would be subject to delisting. Any delisting could have a material adverse effect on our share price which, among other things, could cause a downgrade in our debt ratings potentially resulting in increased interest and other financial expenses related to future borrowings, and could further restrict our access to additional capital or trade credit.We do not plan to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our earnings to support the development and expansion of our business, to repay debt and for other corporate purposes and, as a result, we do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit facility or other restrictive debt agreements that we may be a party to at the time or senior securities we may have issued. Our credit facilities limit us from paying cash dividends or other payments or distributions with respect to our capital stock. In addition, the terms of any future facility or other restrictive debt credit agreement may contain similar restrictions on our ability to pay any dividends or make any distributions or payments with respect to our capital stock. Furthermore, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the restrictions set forth under Delaware law. We cannot assure you that we will meet the criteria specified under Delaware law in the future, in which case we may not be able to pay dividends on our common stock even if we were to choose to do so. 18Our stock price has been volatile and an investment in our stock could lose value. All of the risk factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by us or our competitors, and any announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, including with respect to the closing of the announced merger with NewPage or Apollo’s strategic plans generally, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors’ or analysts’ valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. Stock sales by Apollo’s or our directors, officers, or other significant holders may also affect our stock price. A significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. We may issue additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock. Sales or potential sales of our common stock by us or our significant stockholders may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Following the completion of the announced merger with NewPage, we will not be restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including shares issuable pursuant to securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common stock. Stock sales by our directors, officers or other significant holders may affect our stock price. Anti-takeover provisions in Delaware corporate law may make it difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our current board of directors and could deter or delay third parties from acquiring us, which may adversely affect the marketability and market price of our common stock. We are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or "DGCL." Under these provisions, if anyone becomes an “interested stockholder,” we may not enter into a “business combination” with that person for three years without special approval, which could discourage a third party from making a takeover offer and could delay or prevent a change of control. For purposes of Section 203, “interested stockholder” means, generally, someone owning more than 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate of ours that owned 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock during the past three years, subject to certain exceptions as described in Section 203. Under any change of control, as defined in our credit agreement, the lenders under our credit facility would have the right to require us to repay all of our outstanding obligations under the facility. The issuance of our common stock in connection with the Merger could decrease the market price of our common stock. In connection with the Merger and as part of the consideration for the Merger, we expect to issue a significant number of shares of our common stock. The issuance of our common stock in the Merger would dilute our existing stockholders and may result in fluctuations in the market price of our common stock, including a stock price decline.19Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 