Item 1A. Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. ITEM 1. BUSINESS General We are the largest producer of muriate of potash ("potassium chloride" or "potash") in the United States and are dedicated to the production and marketing of potash and langbeinite ("sulfate of potash magnesia"), another mineral containing potassium that is produced from langbeinite ore and which we will generally describe as langbeinite when we refer to production and as Trio® when we refer to sales and marketing. Our revenues are generated exclusively from the sale of potash and Trio®. Potassium is one of the three primary nutrients essential to plant formation and growth. Since 2005, we have supplied, on average, approximately 1.6 percent of annual world potassium consumption and 9.3 percent of annual U.S. consumption. We are one of two producers of sulfate of potash magnesia, a low-chloride potassium fertilizer with the additional benefits of sulfur and magnesium, providing a multi-nutrient product. We own five active potash production facilities—three in New Mexico (referenced collectively below as "Carlsbad" or individually as "West," "East," and "North") and two in Utah ("Moab" and "Wendover")—and we have a current estimated productive capacity to produce approximately 870,000 tons of potash and approximately 200,000 tons of langbeinite annually. Productive capacity is affected by operating rates, recoveries, mining rates and the amount of development work that we do and, therefore, our production results tend to be lower than our productive capacity. We have an active capital investment program that includes investment in process recovery projects such as our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project, as well as several projects to increase granulation capacity, including our recently completed compaction project in Moab, Utah and our planned expansion of compaction capacity in Wendover, Utah and at our North facility. In addition, we are actively developing the HB Solar Solution mine, located adjacent to our existing producing assets near Carlsbad, New Mexico, which is an idled potash mine that we are in the process of reopening as a solution mine that will utilize solar evaporation techniques in the production of potash. We also have additional opportunities to develop mineralized deposits of potash in New Mexico which could include the reopening of the North Mine, which was operated as a traditional underground mine until the early 1980s, as well as the acceleration of production from our reserves and mineralized deposits of potash through new access points in the area and the potential construction of additional production facilities in the region. Our principal offices are located at 707 17th Street, Suite 4200, Denver, Colorado 80202, and our telephone number is (303) 296-3006. Company History Intrepid, through its predecessor, Mining was formed in January 2000 for the purpose of acquiring the Moab mine. Prior to the acquisition, the Moab mine was a solution mine which had experienced sustained declining production. Our management team at that time stabilized production volumes at nearly twice the pre-acquisition level by applying horizontal drilling technology that is commonly used in the oil and gas industry but had never before been used to mine potash. We observed that potash from Moab, Utah shared markets with potash produced in Carlsbad, New Mexico and in Wendover, Utah. Accordingly, we formulated a strategy to acquire assets in those areas in order to consolidate marketing efforts and effect operating synergies. We acquired the assets of Mississippi Potash, Inc. and Eddy Potash, Inc. in Carlsbad, New Mexico from Mississippi Chemical Company in February 2004. In April 2004, we acquired the potash assets of Reilly Chemical, Inc. in Wendover, Utah. 2 Table of Contents From the inception of Mining in January 2000 through December 31, 2010, we have invested over $359 million in these assets and mines to improve the reliability, efficiencies and productivity of our operations. On April 25, 2008, Intrepid closed its initial public offering ("IPO") by selling 34,500,000 shares of common stock at $32.00 per share. Net proceeds of the offering were approximately $1.032 billion after underwriting discounts and commissions and transaction costs. Prior to April 25, 2008, Intrepid was a consolidated subsidiary of Mining, its predecessor. Since April 25, 2008, Mining's ongoing business has been conducted by Intrepid and includes all operations that previously had been conducted by Mining. On April 25, 2008, pursuant to an exchange agreement ("Exchange Agreement"), Mining assigned all of its assets other than approximately $9.4 million of its cash to Intrepid in exchange for 40,339,000 shares of Intrepid's common stock and approximately $757.4 million of the net proceeds of the IPO. In connection with the exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option, Intrepid also distributed to Mining approximately $135.4 million on April 25, 2008, referred to as the "Formation Distribution." The IPO, the transactions under the Exchange Agreement, and the Formation Distribution are referred to collectively as the "Formation Transactions." Upon the closing of the IPO, Intrepid replaced Mining as the borrower under the senior credit facility. Mining repaid $18.9 million of the principal amount outstanding under the senior credit facility, plus fees and accrued interest, from the amounts Mining received under the Exchange Agreement, and Intrepid repaid the remaining $86.9 million of principal outstanding, plus fees and accrued interest, using net proceeds from the IPO. Approximately $52.6 million of the remaining net proceeds from the IPO were retained by Intrepid and were used to fund production expansions, other growth opportunities, and for general corporate purposes. The transfer of the nonmonetary assets by Mining to Intrepid pursuant to the Exchange Agreement was accounted for at historical cost because the members of Mining received common stock of Intrepid, representing a continuing controlling interest in Intrepid, in connection with the IPO. Mining was dissolved on April 25, 2008. On that date, Mining's estimated liabilities were provided for, and Mining's remaining cash of approximately $882.8 million and 40,340,000 shares of Intrepid common stock owned by Mining were distributed pro rata to Mining's members. Intrepid has one operating segment, the extraction, production and sale of potassium-related products, and its extraction and production operations are conducted entirely in the continental United States. Our Products and Markets Our two primary products are potash and langbeinite, which is marketed as Trio®. The majority of our revenues and gross margin are derived from the production and sales of potash. Potash sales as a percentage of our net realized sales, which we calculate as gross sales less freight costs, and gross margin were approximately as follows for the indicated periods: Contribution from Potash Sales Net Sales Gross Margin For the year ended December 31, 2010 89 % 98 % For the year ended December 31, 2009 85 % 89 % For the period from April 25, 2008 through December 31, 2008 91 % 93 % For the period from January 1, 2008 through April 24, 2008 86 % 93 % Our potash is marketed for sale into three primary markets which are the agricultural market as a fertilizer, the industrial market as a component in drilling and fracturing fluids for oil and gas wells, and the animal feed market as a nutrient. Our primary regional markets include agricultural areas and feed manufacturers west of the Mississippi River, as well as oil and gas drilling areas in the Rocky 3 Table of Contents Mountains and the Permian Basin. We also have domestic sales that go into the southeastern and eastern United States. Our potash production has a geographic concentration in the western United States and is therefore affected by weather and other conditions in this region. We manage our sales and marketing operations centrally which allows us to evaluate the product needs of our customers and then determine which of our production facilities can be utilized to fill customer orders, all of which is designed to realize the highest net realized sales price to Intrepid. Through industry publications, we monitor oil and gas drilling rig count in the Unites States as an indicator of activity. Industrial demand for our standard-sized product will likely continue to correlate with oil and gas pricing, drilling and well completion activity, which has shown some signs of recovery since the third quarter of 2009. We continue to expand our capital spending to increase our compaction capacity in the event that demand for our standard-sized potash product does not recover with industrial demand. By increasing our compaction capacity, we have the ability to convert some of the potash produced for the industrial market into product available for sale into the agricultural market by compacting our standard-sized industrial potash into granular-sized potash, which increases our marketing flexibility and decreases our dependence on any one particular size of potash. We began producing and selling langbeinite in late 2005, and have been marketing it as Trio® since 2007. Trio® is marketed into two primary markets, the agricultural market as a fertilizer and the animal feed market as a nutrient. We market Trio® internationally through an exclusive marketing agreement with PCS Sales (USA), Inc. ("PCS Sales") for sales outside the United States and Canada and via a non-exclusive agreement for sales into Mexico. In contrast, virtually all of our potash is sold in the United States. We are focusing our marketing efforts on increasing the awareness of the agronomic benefits of Trio® and working to grow the overall Trio® market. Sales of Trio® on an international basis tend to be larger bulk shipments and vary as to when such shipments take place; therefore, we see greater variability in our sales volumes from period-to-period when compared to our domestic sales. Sales of our granular-sized Trio® product continued to be solid during 2010 as we sold through our available inventory on multiple occasions. Additionally, standard-size Trio® sales increased in 2010 compared to 2009 by 78 percent, mainly due to an increase in international sales. The composition of our Trio® sales volumes domestically and in the export market were as follows for the indicated periods. United States Export Trio® only For the year ended December 31, 2010 68 % 32 % For the year ended December 31, 2009 65 % 35 % For the period from April 25, 2008 through December 31, 2008 52 % 48 % For the period from January 1, 2008 through April 24, 2008 43 % 57 % Industry Overview Long-term global fertilizer demand has been driven primarily by population growth, changes in dietary habits, planted acreage, agricultural commodity yields and prices, grain inventories, application rates, global economic conditions, weather patterns and farm sector income. We expect these key variables to continue to have an impact on fertilizer demand for the foreseeable future. Sustained income growth and agricultural policies in the developing world also affect demand for fertilizer. Fertilizer demand is affected by other geopolitical factors such as temporary disruptions in fertilizer trade related to government intervention and changes in the buying patterns of key consuming countries. We note that the recent U.S. and world economic crisis has led to volatility in agricultural commodity prices, and this crisis could have a lingering impact on the decisions farmers make related to their fertilization programs. Fertilizers serve a fundamental role in global agriculture by providing essential nutrients that help sustain both the yield and the quality of crops. The three primary nutrients required for plant growth 4 Table of Contents are nitrogen, phosphate and potassium, and there are no known substitutes for these nutrients. A proper balance of each of the three nutrients is necessary to maximize their effectiveness. Potassium helps regulate plants' physiological functions and improves plant durability, providing crops with protection from drought, disease, parasites and cold weather. Unlike nitrogen and phosphate, the potassium contained in naturally-occurring potash does not require additional chemical conversion to be used as a plant nutrient. Potash is mined either from conventional underground mines or, less frequently, from surface or sub-surface brine from aquifers. According to the International Fertilizer Industry Association ("IFA") and data published by potash mining companies, six countries accounted for approximately 89 percent of the world's aggregate potash production during 2009. During this time period, the top seven potash producers supplied approximately 76 percent of world production. Five of the top ten producers are further concentrated into two marketing groups, which together supplied approximately 57 percent of global potash production during 2009, taking into account the proposed merger between two Russian producers. Virtually all of the world's potash is currently extracted from approximately 20 commercial deposits, and the most recently constructed operating mine in the world was opened in 1987. There are substantial challenges to adding new potash production because economically recoverable potash deposits are scarce, deep in the earth and geographically concentrated. A further challenge is that the majority of unexploited mineralized deposits of potash existing outside the Canadian province of Saskatchewan are located in remote and/or politically unstable regions such as the Congo, Thailand, and Argentina. Energy prices and consumption affect the potash industry in several ways. Energy policies in the U.S. have supported the development of biofuels, which currently rely upon agricultural products as feedstock. As demand and prices for these agricultural products increase or decrease, the use of fertilizer becomes more or less economically attractive. In addition, energy prices affect the global levels of oil and gas drilling, and potash is used as a fluid additive as a means to reduce the risk of swelling in clays in the formation. We believe the positive benefit of potassium chloride in drilling and fracturing fluids has been well established in the oil and gas industry. The market for the industrial standard-sized potash used in fracture fluids is regional. According to drilling rig count data compiled by Baker Hughes, the average monthly number of oil and gas drilling rigs in Colorado, Utah and Wyoming areas, which are primarily supplied from our Utah facility, has decreased 30 percent from the high in 2008. The average monthly number of oil and gas drilling rigs for oil and gas in Louisiana, Oklahoma and Texas areas, which are primarily supplied from our Carlsbad East facility, has decreased 20 percent from the high in 2008. The decrease in drilling has resulted in a decrease in demand for drilling and fracturing fluids. Changes in fuel prices directly affect the cost of transporting potash from producing to consuming regions. Changes in natural gas prices also affect the cost of processing potash. The average cost per MMBTU of natural gas for the year ended December 31, 2010, was higher than the average rate for 2009, contributing to an increase in our energy costs. The demand for potash in the United States improved during 2010, returning to the more historically normal levels experienced prior to the fall of 2008, as there was an overall strengthening of the economy and a rebound in application rates of potash after low application rates in prior years. During the latter half of 2010, there was a general strengthening of commodity prices for a wide variety of agricultural products, including corn, rice, cotton, hay, soy beans, among others, leading to the likelihood that the profit margins for farmers should increase in the United States. During the spring of 2010, strong demand continued with sales volumes of potash being higher than any quarter in the last two years as dealers and retailers prepared for the spring application season. Strong demand continued in the fall of 2010 with much of the fall harvest occurring on time or early, resulting in the 5 Table of Contents robust application of fertilizer in the fall. As the weather window for application of fertilizer remained open much longer than anticipated, the demand for potash continued throughout much of the fourth quarter. While the deliveries of potash were strong during the third and fourth quarters of 2010, in particular truck deliveries, we also saw a general strengthening of potash prices. The rebound in the potash market in 2010, contrasted with the below average demand levels that the industry experienced beginning in the fall of 2008 and continuing through most of 2009. Demand for potash began to decline in the fall of 2008 and persisted through much of 2009, due primarily to the interaction of historically high potash prices and the economic backdrop of falling prices for agricultural commodities. Variability in other input costs for the farmer, as well as uncertainty resulting from the recent U.S. and global financial market crisis and recession, were also contributing factors. Demand in the agricultural sector for potash was at its lowest level in the last 30 years of recorded data and was driven by farmers who elected to apply granular-sized potash at lower rates than historical application rates as well as fertilizer dealers' unwillingness to take inventory price risk by holding inventory. During this same period, the demand for our standard-sized potash also declined from historically normal levels due to a decrease in oil and gas drilling and the delay in completion of oil and gas wells that was caused primarily by lower oil and gas commodity prices. Demand for standard-sized potash was also impacted by some drillers using alternatives to standard-sized potash or attempting to forego the use of potash altogether in drilling and completing their wells in an effort to reduce costs. Prior to 2009, growth in global demand, coupled with limited increases in global supply, had led to increases in potash mining operating rates. We believe the global potash industry operated at or near the highest achievable production rates during 2007 and much of 2008. As a result of increasing demand and tight supply during 2007 and a large portion of 2008, potash prices increased rapidly. Beginning in late 2008, the global financial crisis resulted in rapid declines in the price of corn, oil, nitrogen and phosphate fertilizers, and several key crops, which created uncertainty for farmers regarding their input costs and revenue potential heading into the 2009 planting season. This uncertainty persisted for much of 2009, resulting in a decline in the demand for all fertilizers as farmers waited to see how the markets for crops would unfold and sought to reduce their variable costs. A number of global potash producers independently responded to the decrease in demand by curtailing production during 2009. The selling price for our products declined steadily to match market demand throughout much of 2009, and we also sold much less product during 2009 than we have historically. In the United States, demand for potash increased in the fourth quarter of 2009 and continued throughout 2010, based largely on opportunities afforded to farmers by weather that was conducive to harvesting and fertilization of their soil. Fertecon Limited ("Fertecon"), a fertilizer industry consultant, expects global potash consumption to grow approximately 7.6 percent from 2010 to 2011 and then by 4.2 percent annually from 2011 through 2015. Following the contracted potash consumption during 2009, this growth is forecasted to be driven primarily by returning global demand for agricultural commodities, which in turn is driven by the demand for food and alternative energy sources. As populations grow, more food is required from decreasing arable land per capita, which requires higher crop yields and, therefore, more plant nutrients. As incomes grow in the developing world, people tend to consume more animal protein, which requires larger amounts of grain for feed. In addition, the U.S. desire for increased renewable energy and associated energy concerns have resulted in policies supportive of ethanol and bio-diesel production, which currently rely on agricultural products as feedstock. 6 Table of Contents Competition We sell into commodity markets and compete based on delivered price, timely service and product quality. Products must maintain particle size and potassium oxide ("K2O") content benchmarks to compete effectively. Further, our customers value the ability to deliver product in a timely manner. We compete primarily with much larger potash producers, principally Canadian producers and, to a lesser extent, producers located in Russia, Germany and Israel. As a smaller producer, we seek to maintain an advantage through timely service, the ability to time our sales to market conditions, and a focus on the markets in which we have a transportation cost advantage. Strategy Intrepid's strategy is to focus on maximizing margins associated with the sale of potash and Trio®. Because of our proximity to the markets we serve, we have typically achieved a higher average net realized sales price for our potash products compared to our competitors. We calculate our average net realized sales price by subtracting freight costs from gross sales revenue and then dividing this result by sales tons. We believe that we have an ability to improve the efficiencies of our existing mine operations with specific debottlenecking and ore recovery projects. We also will attempt to increase potash and langbeinite production through the reopening of mines and expansion of production capabilities at our facilities. •Focus on margin. We focus on our margin both by effectively marketing our products into markets that earn us a higher margin in order to increase sales profitability and by working toward reducing per ton operating costs. We plan to take advantage of additional opportunities to control our fixed and variable operating expenses and pursue various projects designed to increase the sustainability and reliability of our mining facilities and minimize production downtime. •Expand potash production from existing facilities. We have expansion opportunities at our operating facilities that we expect will increase production, drive down our unit cost per ton and increase our cash flow. We expanded our mining capacity at our Carlsbad facilities by adding new mining panels at our East and West facilities in 2010 and plan to add an additional mining panel at each mine in 2011. Another of these projects is the reopening of the HB Solar Solution mine. The HB Solar Solution mine, located near Carlsbad, New Mexico, was formerly operated as a conventional underground mine and was idled in 1996 by its previous owner. We are in the process of reopening the HB mine, which will use the same solar evaporation and solution mining technology we currently use at our Moab mine. We believe the HB Solar Solution mine is suitable for solution mining due to the accessibility of the mineral resource and our ability to rely in part on existing infrastructure and personnel to process potash. We were notified by the Bureau of Land Management (the "BLM") in early January 2009 that the HB Solar Solution mine project would be evaluated through an Environmental Impact Statement ("EIS") process pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act. We were notified in January 2010 by the BLM's consultant that the schedule for the EIS review process has been extended in order for the BLM to complete preparation and review of the preliminary draft EIS. The revised schedule reflects issuance of a Record of Decision during the first quarter of 2012. We received the ground water discharge permit for the HB Solar Solution mine project from the New Mexico Environment Department ("NMED") in July 2010 and are in the process of obtaining the NMED air quality permit for the project. Once the remaining regulatory approvals are obtained, we anticipate promptly commencing construction. We estimate that first production will result approximately 18 months after construction begins with ramp up to full production 7 Table of Contents expected in the succeeding year, reflecting the benefit of a complete annual evaporation cycle applied to full evaporation ponds. •Expand langbeinite production. We are one of two producers of langbeinite. We mine langbeinite near Carlsbad, New Mexico from the only known commercial reserves of langbeinite in the world. In order to better capitalize on the demand for langbeinite, in May 2010, we announced our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project, which is designed to increase our recoveries of Trio® from the langbeinite ore. As part of this project, we plan to construct a plant to allow us the flexibility to granulate all of our standard-sized product, if market conditions warrant, and have it available for sale into the granular market. In addition, this project is designed to reduce our water usage as it relates to our langbeinite production facility and therefore reduce the need to invest additional capital in water management equipment and storage capacity. The commencement of activities in contemplation of construction began during the fourth quarter of 2010, and completion and operation of the project are expected by the end of 2011, assuming timely receipt of all necessary government permits and approvals. The total capital investment for this project is expected to be between $85 and $90 million. We are committed to the expansion of our langbeinite production and to increasing our marketing efforts to educate farmers about the agronomic benefits of Trio®. •Increase marketing flexibility. We are working on projects designed to increase our capacity to compact standard-sized product into granular-sized product which will increase our marketing flexibility and decrease our dependence on any one particular market. By increasing our compaction capacity, we will have the ability to convert more of our product produced for the industrial market into product available for sale into the agricultural market if market conditions warrant. The first of these compaction projects, the Moab compactor, was placed into service in December 2010. During 2011, we will begin work on additional compaction projects, at our Wendover facility and at our North granulation facility. Competitive Strengths •U.S. potash-only producer. We are the largest producer of potash in the U.S., the second largest potash-consuming country in the world. We are one of two publicly-traded potash-only companies producing today, the other being Uralkali, a Russian producer. We are dedicated to the production and marketing of potash and langbeinite. As a dedicated potash producer and because potash prices have historically been subject to less volatility than prices for other fertilizers and commodity chemicals, we believe our financial performance is subject to less volatility than that of other fertilizer companies that produce fertilizers other than, or in addition to, potash. Provided that mining and milling operations occur at steady operating rates, the costs to mine and produce potash are relatively fixed and stable, whereas the costs to produce other fertilizers have significantly greater exposure to volatile raw material costs, such as natural gas used to produce nitrogen and sulfur used to produce phosphate products. As a U.S. producer, we enjoy a significantly lower total production tax and royalty burden than our principal competitors, which operate primarily in Saskatchewan, Canada. The Saskatchewan tax system for potash producers includes a capital tax and several potash mineral taxes, none of which are imposed on us as a U.S. producer. The Saskatchewan potash mineral tax includes a crown royalty, a base payment and a profit tax. We currently pay an average royalty rate in the range of approximately 3.5 to 4.0 percent of our net sales, which compares favorably to our competitors in Canada. This relative tax and royalty advantage for U.S. producers becomes more pronounced when profits per ton increase due primarily to the profit tax component of the Saskatchewan potash mineral tax. We define net sales as gross sales revenues less freight costs. •Assets located near our primary customer base. Our mines are advantageously located near our largest customers. We believe that our locations allow us to realize higher average net realized 8 Table of Contents sales prices than our competitors, who must ship their products across longer distances to consuming markets, which are often export markets. Our location allows us to target sales to the markets in which we have the greatest transportation advantage, maximizing our average net realized sales price. Our access to strategic rail destination points and our location along major agricultural trucking routes support this advantage. In addition, our location in an oil and gas producing region allows us to serve industrial customers, the majority of whom we service by truck. Our average net realized sales price per ton advantage over our primary Canadian competitors, which results primarily from our freight cost advantage, was $61, $151, and $88 per product ton of potash for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The average net realized sales price advantage in the fourth quarter of 2010, was $79 per product ton of potash. Our calculations are based on the average net realized sales price for Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan Inc., The Mosaic Company, and Agrium Inc. for muriate of potash only. •Expand into specialty markets. We sell to three different markets for potash—the agricultural, industrial and feed markets. During 2010, these markets represented approximately 82 percent, 11 percent and 7 percent of our potash sales, respectively. According to Fertecon, approximately 91 percent of all potash produced is used as a fertilizer. A primary component of the industrial markets we serve is the oil and natural gas services industry, where potash is commonly used in drilling and fracturing oil and natural gas wells. We are one of two producers of langbeinite in the world. Both producing facilities are located near Carlsbad, New Mexico. Given the greater scarcity of langbeinite relative to potash and its agronomic suitability for certain soils and crops, there is demand for our langbeinite product, known as Trio®, outside of our core potash markets. During 2010, we sold approximately 204,000 tons of Trio®, representing 20 percent of our total product tons sold during the year. We have begun activities in contemplation of construction on our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project which, when built, is designed to increase our langbeinite recovery. PCS Sales markets our langbeinite products exclusively outside North America and non-exclusively into Mexico. This relationship gives us access to PCS Sales' extensive international sales network and informs us about developments in the international market. •Significant reserve life and water rights. Our potash and langbeinite reserves each have substantial life, with remaining reserve life ranging from 28 to 158 years, based on proven and probable reserves estimated in accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") requirements. This lasting reserve base is the result of our past acquisition and development strategy. In addition to our reserves, we have valuable water rights and access to significant mineralized deposits of potash for potential future exploitation. •Existing facilities and infrastructure. Constructing a new potash production facility requires extensive capital investment in mining, milling and infrastructure, which is expensive and requires substantial time to complete. Our five operating facilities and the HB Solar Solution mine already have significant facilities and infrastructure in place. We have the ability to expand our business using existing installed infrastructure, in less time and with lower expenditures than would be required to construct entirely new mines. •Track record of innovation and modernization. Our management team has a history of building successful operations through the acquisition of underutilized assets, followed by creative use of technology to increase productivity and reliability. As an entrepreneurial, potash-only producer, we have devoted considerable management attention to each facility, with a focus on modernization, sustainability, and improving production. We have applied technologies from other industries, including the oil and gas industry, and implemented innovative production processes. From the inception of Mining in January 2000 to December 31, 2010, we have 9 Table of Contents invested approximately $359 million in capital expenditures at our facilities to enhance the reliability and productivity of our operations. •Solar evaporation operations. The Moab mine and the Wendover facility, both located in the Utah desert, utilize solar evaporation to crystallize potash from brines. Solar evaporation is a low-cost and energy-efficient method of producing potash. Our understanding and application of solution mining, combined with our location in regions with favorable climates for evaporation, allow our Utah facilities to enjoy relatively low production costs. We are in the process of developing the HB Solar Solution mine using the same solar evaporation and solution mining technology we use at our Moab mine. International Marketing and Distribution Our international sales of potash and Trio® are marketed on a spot basis by PCS Sales under an exclusive marketing agreement for sales outside North America and under a non-exclusive agreement for sales into Mexico. During 2010, approximately 32 percent of our Trio® was sold internationally. This represents approximately 3.8 percent of our total gross sales. Our relationship with PCS Sales provides us access to PCS Sales' international sales network. The chart below shows the percentage of sales of potash and Trio® made to various countries, based upon shipping destination, during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008. The market for our Trio® product continues to expand. Geographic Breakdown of Net Sales—All Products Percentage of Net Sales Year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 United States 95.5 % 91.0 % 92.9 % Region: Mexico/Latin America 2.2 % 3.6 % 4.1 % Caribbean — 2.9 0.6 Canada 0.8 0.6 0.4 Other 1.5 1.9 2.0 Export Subtotal 4.5 9.0 7.1 Total Sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Major Customers We have a diversified customer base exceeding 150 customers. As noted earlier, we sell into the agricultural, industrial and feed markets. In 2010, these markets represented approximately 82 percent, 11 percent and 7 percent of our potash sales, respectively. Within the agricultural market, we supply a diversified customer base of distributors, retailers and cooperatives, who in turn supply farmers producing a wide range of crops. Agricultural markets primarily consume granular-sized potash, whereas the industrial and feed markets primarily consume standard-sized potash. Our facilities were designed to produce either of these products, and we are able to switch production between them, giving us some flexibility to adjust our product mix to market conditions. Servicing the industrial and feed markets provides us with customers that are unrelated to agricultural markets. In 2010, 2009, and 2008, one distributor customer accounted for 14.2 percent, 7.7 percent, and 5.4 percent, respectively; we also had an additional distributor customer who accounted for 9.5 percent, 7.4 percent and 10.5 percent of sales, respectively. Although we consider our relationship with these 10 Table of Contents customers to be very important, we do not believe that their loss or a significant decline in their purchases would have a material adverse effect upon our financial results due to the regional demands for our product. Environmental, Safety and Health Matters We mine and process potash and potassium related products which subjects us to an evolving set of federal, state and local environmental, safety and health ("ESH") laws that regulate, or propose to regulate: (1) product content and labeling; (2) conditions of mining and production operations, including safety procedures followed by employees; (3) management and handling of raw materials; (4) air and water quality impacts from our facilities; (5) disposal, storage and management of hazardous and solid wastes; (6) remediation of contamination or excessive emissions at our facilities and (7) post-mining land reclamation. We employ, both within Intrepid and outside Intrepid, environmental professionals to review our operations, assist with environmental compliance and obtain new permits and licenses to operate. These environmental professionals identify and address compliance issues regarding hydrocarbon management, solid and hazardous waste management, protection of water and air quality, asbestos abatement, potable water standards, reclamation and closure, radiation control and other ESH issues. We have spent, and anticipate that we will continue to spend, financial and managerial resources to comply with ESH standards. The majority of these resources will be expended through our capital budget. In 2010, we expended approximately $2.2 million on environmentally-driven capital projects and expect to invest less than this in 2011. In 2010, we recognized an environmental expense of $1.0 million within cost of goods sold expense, principally for the disposal of hazardous materials and environmental studies. We expect to incur similar environmental expenses within our cost of goods sold expense in 2011. However, if contamination is discovered or the contamination is of a greater magnitude than currently estimated, material expenditures could be required in the future to remediate the contamination at these or at other current or former sites. On December 14, 2010, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed a rule to list the dunes sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus arenicolus), a species known to live in southeastern New Mexico and adjacent west Texas, as endangered under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (the "Endangered Species Act"). If the rule is finalized as proposed, it would extend the Endangered Species Act's protections to the dunes sagebrush lizard. The listing of the dunes sagebrush lizard as endangered under the Endangered Species Act could have a material adverse effect on Intrepid's operations in southeastern New Mexico, including its development of the HB Solar Solution mine project. Specifically, the listing of this species could result in increased operational costs and, possibly, limitations or prohibitions on certain of Intrepid's operations in the area. We cannot predict the impact of new or changed laws, regulations or permit requirements, including the matters discussed below, or changes in the ways that such laws, regulations or permit requirements are enforced, interpreted or administered. Environmental, safety and health laws and regulations are complex, are subject to change and have become more stringent over time. It is possible that greater than anticipated ESH capital expenditures or reclamation and closure expenditures will be required in 2011 or in the future. We expect continued government and public emphasis on environmental issues will result in increased future investments for environmental controls at our operations. Product Registration Requirements We are required to register fertilizer products with each U.S. state and foreign country where products are sold. Each brand and grade of commercial fertilizer must be registered with the appropriate state agency before being offered for sale, sold or distributed in that state. Registration 11 Table of Contents requires a completed application, guaranteed analysis, product labels and registration fee. Sold products must have specified information printed on the bag, on tags affixed to the end of the package, or, if in bulk shipments, written or printed on the invoice, bill of lading or shipping papers. State registrations are for one to two-year periods, depending on each state's requirements. In addition, each state also requires tonnage reporting for products sold into that state either monthly, quarterly, semi-annually or annually, depending on each state's requirements. Some states do require the same registration and reporting process for feed grade products; industrial grade products do not require registration or tonnage reporting. Operating Requirements and Government Regulations Permits. We are subject to numerous ESH laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regarding land reclamation; release of air or water emissions; the generation, treatment, storage, disposal and handling of hazardous substances and wastes; and the cleanup of hazardous substances releases. These laws include the Clean Air Act; the Clean Water Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"); the Toxic Substances Control Act; and various other federal, state, and local laws and regulations. Violations can result in substantial penalties, court orders to install pollution-control equipment, civil and criminal sanctions, permit revocations and facility shutdowns. In addition, ESH laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability, without regard to fault, and for cleanup costs on potentially responsible parties who have released, disposed of or arranged for release or disposal of hazardous substances in the environment. We hold numerous environmental, mining and other permits or approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. Our operations are subject to permits for, among other things, extraction of salt and brine, discharges of process materials and waste to air and surface water, and injection of brine and wastewater to sub-surface wells. Some of our proposed activities may require waste storage permits. A decision by a government agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could limit or prevent us from mining at these properties. In addition, changes to environmental and mining regulations or permit requirements could limit our ability to continue operations at the affected facility. Expansion of our operations also is predicated upon securing the necessary environmental or other permits or approvals. In certain cases, as a condition to procuring such permits and approvals, we are required to comply with financial assurance regulatory requirements. The purpose of these requirements is to assure the government that sufficient company funds will be available for the ultimate closure, post-closure care and/or reclamation at our facilities. We obtain bonds as financial assurance for these obligations. These bonds require annual payment and renewal. Except as set forth herein, we believe we are in material compliance with existing regulatory programs, permits, and approvals. From time to time, we have received notices from governmental agencies that we are not in compliance with certain environmental laws, regulations, permits or approvals. For example, although designated as zero discharge facilities under the applicable water quality laws and regulations, our East facility, North facility, and Moab facility at times may experience some water discharges during periods of significant rainfall. We have implemented several initiatives in an attempt to address discharge issues, including the reconstruction or modification of certain dams, increasing evaporation through water sprays, pumping water to other storage facilities, and reducing process discharges. State and federal officials are aware of these issues and have visited the sites to review our corrective efforts. No citations or orders have been issued regarding water discharge violations. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we started activities in contemplation of construction on our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project, which, upon completion, is expected to reduce the amount of water that we use in our East facility. 12 Table of Contents Air Emissions. With respect to air emissions, we anticipate that additional actions and expenditures may be required in the future to meet increasingly stringent U.S. federal and state regulatory and permit requirements, including existing and anticipated regulations under the federal Clean Air Act. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and NMED have issued a number of regulations establishing requirements to reduce nitrogen oxide emissions and other air pollutant emissions. We are currently engaged in the air permitting process for our Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project. We will be required to obtain permits for our compaction projects in Wendover and Carlsbad and for the mill that will support the production from our HB Solar Solution mine at our North facility before we commence construction activities. Additionally, with increased attention paid to emissions of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, new federal or state regulations could go into effect that may affect our operations. We will continue to monitor developments in these various programs and assess their potential impacts on our operations. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we receive notices from NMED of alleged air quality control violations. Upon receipt of such notices, we promptly evaluate the matter and take any required corrective actions. In these circumstances, we may be required to pay certain civil penalties for any such notices of violation. The malfunction or failure of pollution control equipment and/or production equipment, more stringent air quality regulations, or a change in interpretation and enforcement of applicable air quality laws and regulations could result in future enforcement actions. Safety and Health Regulation and Programs. Our New Mexico and Utah facilities are subject to the Mine Safety and Health Act ("MSHA"), the Occupational Safety and Health Act ("OSHA"), related state statutes and regulations, or a combination of these laws. MSHA is the governing agency for our New Mexico facilities. As required by MSHA for underground mines and attendant surface facilities, our New Mexico facilities are inspected by MSHA personnel regularly. We have included disclosure regarding certain mine safety and health citations that MSHA has issued to Intrepid required by the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act") in Part II, Item 9B of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our New Mexico facilities participate in MSHA's Region 8 "Partnership Program." There is a formally signed document and plan, pursuant to which each party commits to specific actions and behaviors. Examples of principles include working for an open, cooperative environment; agreeing to citation and conflict processes; improving training; and helping other, less equipped or staffed locations. Annual and refresher training for all employees at our New Mexico facilities is held, covering required topics as well as site-specific issues and incidents. Each of our New Mexico facilities is serviced by a trained mine rescue team which is ready to respond to any on-site incidents. The team practices and participates at state and federal events and competitions. OSHA governs the safety standards at our Utah facilities. Both Moab and Wendover have active safety and health programs. Regular meetings are held covering various safety topics. Annual and refresher training is held for all employees at these facilities, covering required topics, as well as site specific issues and incidents. Training for other certifications is provided to employees as needed based upon their work duties. Remediation at Intrepid Facilities. Many of our current facilities have been in operation for a number of years. Operations by us and our predecessors have involved the historical use and handling of potash, salt, related potash and salt by-products, process tailings, hydrocarbons and other regulated substances. Some of these operations resulted, or may have resulted, in soil, surface water or groundwater contamination. At some locations, there are areas where process waste, building materials (including asbestos-containing transite), and ordinary trash may have been disposed or buried, and have since been closed and covered with soil and other materials. 13 Table of Contents At many of these facilities, spills or other releases of regulated substances have occurred previously and potentially could occur at any of our facilities in the future, possibly requiring us to undertake or fund cleanup efforts under CERCLA or state laws governing cleanup or disposal of hazardous and solid waste substances. On some occasions, we have entered into agreements with appropriate governmental agencies to perform required remedial activities that will address identified site conditions. For example, buildings located at our facilities in both Utah and New Mexico have a type of transite siding that contains asbestos. We have adopted programs to encapsulate and stabilize portions of the siding through use of an adhesive spray and to remove the transite siding, replacing it with an asbestos-free material. Also, we have trained asbestos abatement crews that handle and dispose of the asbestos-containing transite and related materials. We have permitted asbestos landfills in New Mexico and Utah. We have worked closely with Utah officials to address asbestos-related issues at our Moab mine. We are working with federal officials to resolve issues concerning the disposal of asbestos-containing transite at an unpermitted location at our West mine, which may require additional removal of transite material, a land swap or another remedy. Reclamation Obligations Mining and processing of potash generates residual materials that must be managed both during the operation of the facility and upon facility reclamation and closure. Potash tailings, consisting primarily of salt and clay, are stored in surface disposal sites. Some of these tailing materials may also include other contaminants, that were introduced as part of historic processing methods, such as lead, that may require additional management and could cause additional disposal and reclamation requirements to be imposed. For example, at least one of our New Mexico mining facilities, the HB Solar Solution mine, may have legacy issues regarding lead in the tailings pile resulting from production methods utilized prior to our acquisition of these assets. During the life of the tailings management areas, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs to manage potash residual materials in accordance with environmental laws and regulations and with permit requirements. Additional legal and permit requirements will take effect when these facilities are closed. Additionally, several of our permits require us to reclaim property disturbed by operations at our facilities. Our operations in Utah and New Mexico have specific obligations related to reclamation of the land after mining and processing operations are concluded. The discounted present value of our estimated reclamation costs for our mines as of December 31, 2010, is approximately $9.5 million, which is reflected in our financial statements. However, various permits and authorization documents negotiated with or issued by the appropriate governmental authorities include these estimated reclamation costs on an undiscounted basis. The undiscounted amount of our estimated reclamation costs for our mines as of December 31, 2010, is approximately $32.7 million. It is often difficult to estimate and predict the potential costs and liabilities associated with remediation and reclamation, and there is no guarantee that we will not be identified in the future as potentially responsible for additional remediation and reclamation costs, either as a result of changes in existing laws and regulations or as a result of the identification of additional matters or properties subject to remediation and/or reclamation obligations or liabilities. Taxes and Insurance Royalties and Other Taxes The potash, langbeinite, and by-products we produce and sell from mineral leases are subject to royalty and other tax payments. We produce and sell from leased land owned by the U.S. Federal government, the states of New Mexico and Utah, and private land owners. The terms of the royalty payments are determined at the time of the issuance or renewal of the leases. Some royalties are 14 Table of Contents determined as a fixed percentage of revenue and others are on a sliding scale that varies with the ore grade. Additionally, some of our leases are subject to overriding royalty interest payments paid to various owners. In 2010, we paid $12.5 million, or an average of 3.8 percent of net sales, in royalties and other taxes. Income Taxes We are a subchapter C corporation and therefore are subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. We recognize income taxes under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the periods in which the deferred tax liability or asset is expected to be settled or realized. We record a valuation allowance if it is deemed more likely than not that our deferred income tax assets will not be realized in full. Such determinations are subject to ongoing assessment. Insurance We maintain insurance policies covering general liability, property and business interruption, workers' compensation, business automobile, umbrella liability, aviation hull and liability, directors' and officers' liability and various ancillary and customary policies. Our policy periods are typically for one year. We evaluate our limits each year based on our exposures and risk tolerance. Generally, our premiums are adjusted to reflect the marketplace for insurance and changes in our exposures, inclusive of changes in invested capital and changes in the market values of the products we sell. Seasonality The sales patterns of our agricultural products are generally seasonal. Over the last three years, we have averaged between 26 percent and 29 percent of our annual potash sales volume during the three-month period from February through April, when the demand for fertilizer typically peaks in the markets we serve. The strongest demand for our fertilizer products occurs during the spring planting season, with a second period of strong demand following the fall harvest. Over the last three years, on average, approximately 20 percent of our total annual potash sales have occurred during the slower summer period between May and July. We and our customers generally build inventories during the low demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during the peak sales seasons. The seasonality of fertilizer demand results in our sales volumes and net sales being the highest during the spring and our working capital requirements being the highest just before the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. In 2010, applications of fertilizers in the spring and fall were significantly higher than the previous years with a return to historical normal levels experienced prior to the fall of 2008. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had 803 total employees of which 798 were full-time employees. Of the total employees, 647 were located in Carlsbad, New Mexico, 50 in Wendover, Utah, 53 in Moab, Utah, 51 in Denver, Colorado and 2 in other locations. We have a collective bargaining agreement with a labor organization representing our hourly employees in Wendover, Utah, which expires on May 31, 2011. This is the fourth agreement negotiated between us and the United Steelworkers, AFL-CIO, on behalf of Local 876. We do not anticipate any significant issues to arise as a result of the renewal of this agreement. We consider our relationships with our employees to be good. 15 Table of Contents Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Exchange Act. We therefore file periodic reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. Such reports may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549, or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our Internet website address is www.intrepidpotash.com. Under the investor relations tab of our website, we make available, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with or furnish it to the SEC. We also routinely post important information about Intrepid and our business under the investor relations tab of our website. The information found on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Glossary of Terms Langbeinite (K2SO42MgSO4—potassium magnesium sulfate): A generic term for the mineral sulfate of potash magnesia. The processing of ores containing langbeinite results in sulfate of potash magnesia which we market for sale as Trio®. Magnesium Chloride (MgCl2): An effective de-icing and de-dusting agent. Metal Recovery Salt: Potash combined with salt in various ratios that chemically enhances the recovery of aluminum in aluminum recycling processing facilities. Mill Feed Grade: A measurement of the amount of mineral contained in an ore as a percentage of the total weight of the ore. Often represented as percent of potassium oxide (K2O) or percent potassium chloride (KCl) or percent langbeinite. MMBtu: A standard unit of measurement used to denote the amount of energy in fuels. Million British Thermal Units. Potash: A generic term for potassium salts (primarily potassium chloride, but also potassium nitrate, potassium sulfate and sulfate of potash magnesia, or langbeinite) used predominantly and widely as a fertilizer in agricultural markets worldwide. Potash also has numerous industrial uses, including oil and gas drilling and stimulation fluids. The chloride containing potash salt is commonly called sylvite or muriate of potash. Unless otherwise indicated, references to "potash" refer to muriate of potash. Potash Area: A 497,000 acre location in the United States' strategic potash reserve in southeastern New Mexico established by order of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior and administered by the BLM. Potassium Chloride (KCl—muriate of potash): The most abundant, least expensive source of potassium on a delivered K2O basis and the preferred source of potassium for fertilizer use, currently accounting for approximately 95 percent of total worldwide fertilizer use of K2O. Commercial grades for fertilizer use are typically 95-98 percent potassium chloride, containing about 60-62 percent K2O. Potassium chloride is the primary raw material used to produce industrial potassium hydroxide and its derivative salts, the most commercially important of which are potassium carbonate, potassium chromate, potassium permanganate and the potassium phosphates. It is also used as an intermediate in chemical synthesis routes to potassium sulfate and potassium nitrate. Muriate of potash is either red or white in appearance, depending on how it is produced. 16 Table of Contents Potassium Nitrate (KNO3—niter, saltpeter, nitrate of potash or sal prunella): A white crystalline salt. In the U.S., its use is limited but it is used as a nonchloride source of potash and nitrate nitrogen. The nutrient content of commercial, fertilizer-grade material is about 13-14 percent nitrogen and 44 percent K2O. Although potassium nitrate does exist as such in nature, there are no known large deposits of concentrated potassium nitrate-containing minerals. Recovery of naturally occurring materials has been primarily from the crude sodium nitrate (caliche) beds in Chile. Potassium nitrate is referenced in the "potash" and "potassium chloride" terms above. Potassium Oxide (K2O): The potassium content of commercial fertilizers is expressed as percent potassium oxide (K2O). Potassium oxide, however, is merely a customary means of reporting potassium content within the fertilizer industry on the N-P-K (nitrogen-phosphorus-potassium) numbers on the labels of fertilizers. Although K2O is the formula for potassium oxide, potassium oxide is not used as a fertilizer. The potassium content of pure potassium chloride fertilizer is expressed as 63 percent K2O, which is the equivalent of 52.3 percent elemental K (potassium). In the soil, potassium chloride dissolves into potassium ions (K+) and chloride ions (Cl-). Percent potassium oxide (K2O) is referenced in other terms in this glossary. Potassium Sulfate (K2SO4—sulfate of potash or SOP): A crystalline salt that is derived directly from brines or synthesized from other potassium salts and minerals. Commercial grades for fertilizer use are usually 93-95 percent potassium sulfate, containing 50-51 percent K2O. Potassium sulfate accounts for 1-2 percent of total worldwide potash fertilizer use. Potassium sulfate is referenced in the "potash" and "potassium chloride" terms above. Probable (Indicated) Reserves: Reserves for which quantity and grade and/or quality are computed from information similar to that used for proven (measured) reserves, but the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are farther apart or are otherwise less adequately spaced. The degree of assurance of probable (indicated) reserves, although lower than that for proven (measured) reserves, is high enough to assume geological continuity between points of observation. The classification of minerals as probable reserves requires that Intrepid believe with reasonable certainty that access to the reserves can be obtained, even though currently-issued permits are not required. Productive Capacity: The estimated amount of potash production that will likely be achieved based on the amount and quality of ore that we estimate can currently be mined, milled, and/or processed, assuming an estimated average reserve grade, no modifications to the systems, a normal amount of scheduled down time, average or typical mine development efforts and operation of all of our mines and facilities at or near full capacity. Proven (Measured) Reserves: Reserves for which (a) quantity is computed from dimensions revealed in outcrops, trenches, workings or drill holes; grade and/or quality are computed from the results of detailed sampling, and (b) the sites for inspection, sampling and measurement are spaced so closely and the geologic character is so well-defined that the size, shape, depth and mineral content of the reserves are well-established. Recovery: The percentage of valuable material in the ore that is beneficiated prior to further treatment to develop a saleable product. Reserve: That part of a mineral deposit which could be economically and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve determination. Salt (NaCl—sodium chloride): The salt industry is a commodity business with a heavy emphasis on price competition, which results in market boundaries being defined by delivered costs. Solar Evaporation: A mineral concentration process by which brines containing salt, potash and magnesium chloride are collected into solar evaporation ponds, where solar energy is used to evaporate 17 Table of Contents water and crystallize out the salt and potash contained in the brine. The resulting evaporate is then processed to separate the potash from the salt and subsequently prepared for sale. Solution Mining: A mining process by which potash is extracted from mineralized beds by injecting a salt-saturated brine into a potash ore body. The density of the brine increases as potash dissolves into the brine. The dense, potash-rich solvent then sinks to the bottom of the mine, where extraction wells pump the salt and potash-saturated brine to the surface for processing. Solution mining does not require men or machines to be underground. Sulfate of Potash Magnesia (K2SO4.2MgSO4)—langbeinite or potassium magnesium sulfate): A double salt containing potassium and magnesium sulfates. In the United States, sulfate of potash magnesia, which is produced by refining langbeinite ore, accounts for approximately 2 percent of potash fertilizer, based on 2008 estimates by the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials, Inc. Commercial products typically contain 22 percent K2O, 11 percent magnesium and 22 percent sulfur. In Europe, a variety of these mixed salts is made from different ores, in grades ranging from 12-42 percent K2O, 2-5 percent magnesium and 3-7 percent sulfur. Tailings: Salt and insoluble minerals that remain after potash is removed from ore during processing, typically disposed of in a tailings pile. Ton: A short ton, or a measurement of mass equal to 2,000 pounds. Unless expressly stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, references to "tons" in this report refers to short tons. Trio®: The product Intrepid markets for sale that is processed from langbeinite ore and which serves as a low-chloride potassium, magnesium and sulfur-bearing fertilizer primarily for use in citrus, vegetable, sugarcane and palm applications and as an animal feed supplement. Underground Mining: A method of extracting economically attractive mineralization from deeper deposits. Underground mining generally consists of multiple shafts and a network of tunnels to provide access to minerals and conveyance systems to transport materials underground and to the surface. Underground mining machines are used to cut a network of interconnected passages at approximately the same height as the ore seam and a series of pillars are left behind to provide the appropriate level of ground support to ensure safe access and mining. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions held by Intrepid's executive officers. The age of the executive officers is as of February 15, 2011. Name Age Position Robert P. Jornayvaz III 52 Executive Chairman of the Board David W. Honeyfield 44 President and Chief Financial Officer Martin D. Litt 46 Executive Vice President and General Counsel James N. Whyte 52 Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Risk Management R.L. Moore 61 Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales John G. Mansanti 55 Vice President of Operations Kelvin G. Feist 43 Vice President of Marketing and Sales Brian D. Frantz 48 Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Robert P. Jornayvaz III has served as Executive Chairman of the Board, since May 2010. Mr. Jornayvaz served as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Intrepid Potash, Inc. from November 2007 until May 2010 and served, directly or indirectly, as a manager of Intrepid Mining LLC from January 2000 until its dissolution in 2008, at the time of Intrepid's initial public offering ("IPO"). As described above in "Business—Company History," Intrepid Potash, Inc. was a 18 Table of Contents subsidiary of Intrepid Mining LLC and acquired substantially all of its assets from Intrepid Mining LLC at the time of the IPO. As a manager of Intrepid Mining LLC, Mr. Jornayvaz was responsible for the business operations of Intrepid Mining LLC. Mr. Jornayvaz is the 100 percent owner of Intrepid Production Corporation, which owns approximately 15 percent of Intrepid, and 100 percent of IPC Management LLC, one of two managers of the former Intrepid Mining LLC. Intrepid Production Corporation also owns 50 percent of Intrepid Oil & Gas, LLC. Mr. Jornayvaz has approximately 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry and 12 years of experience in the potash industry. David W. Honeyfield has served as President and Chief Financial Officer of Intrepid Potash, Inc., since May 2010. Mr. Honeyfield also served as Treasurer from May 2008 until December 2010. Prior to May 2010, Mr. Honeyfield served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary from March 2008 until May 2010. From May 2003 to March 2008, he held various positions with SM Energy, Inc. (formerly St. Mary Land & Exploration Company), most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from March 2007 to March 2008, Chief Financial Officer from May 2005 to March 2007, and Vice President—Finance, Treasurer and Secretary from May 2003 to May 2005. While at St. Mary, a public company with shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Honeyfield, among other things, was responsible for capital structure planning, financial reporting, oversight of company accounting practices, the preparation of forecasts and budgets, and oversight of tax and internal audit functions. Prior to joining SM Energy Inc., Mr. Honeyfield was Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Cimarex Energy Co. from September 2002 to May 2003 and Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Key Production Company, Inc., which was acquired by Cimarex in September 2002. Prior to joining Key Production Company in April 2002, Mr. Honeyfield was a senior manager in the audit practice of Arthur Andersen LLP in Denver. Mr. Honeyfield had been with Arthur Andersen LLP since 1991, serving clients primarily in the mining, oil and gas, and manufacturing sectors. Martin D. Litt joined Intrepid Potash, Inc. as Executive Vice President and General Counsel in July 2008. He began his legal career with the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP in 1991, a large law firm with offices located around the world. In 1993, Mr. Litt joined the law firm of Holme Roberts & Owen LLP, a law firm based in Denver, Colorado. Mr. Litt served as a partner for nine years at Holme Roberts & Owen and also served on the firm's Executive Committee, a committee responsible for managing the law firm, for two years. During his time at Holme Roberts & Owen LLP, Mr. Litt focused his practice on commercial litigation, antitrust matters, and general business counseling. While at Holme Roberts & Owen LLP, Mr. Litt served as outside counsel to Intrepid Mining LLC and Intrepid Potash, Inc. for approximately six years. James N. Whyte has served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Risk Management of Intrepid Potash, Inc. since December 2007. Mr. Whyte joined Intrepid Mining LLC as Vice President of Human Resources and Risk Management in May 2004 and was named Executive Vice President of Human Resources and Risk Management in December 2007. As described above in "Business—Company History," Intrepid Potash, Inc. was a subsidiary of Intrepid Mining LLC and acquired substantially all of its assets from Intrepid Mining LLC at the time of the IPO. From December 1998 until December 2002, Mr. Whyte served as President of Caleb Insurance Group, Inc., a small, private commercial insurance brokerage firm that he founded, where he was responsible for all business operations. R.L. Moore has served as Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales of Intrepid Potash, Inc. since its formation in November 2007. From March 2005 until November 2007, he served as Senior Vice President of Marketing of Intrepid Potash—New Mexico, LLC, and, from March 2004 until March 2005, he served as Vice President of Marketing of Intrepid Potash—New Mexico, LLC. In such roles for Intrepid Potash—New Mexico, LLC, Mr. Moore directed all marketing and sales activities. From 1996 until March 2004, Mr. Moore served as Vice President of Marketing for Mississippi Potash, Inc. where he directed all marketing and sales activities for Mississippi Potash's potash mining and processing. 19 Table of Contents John G. Mansanti has served as Vice President of Operations of Intrepid Potash, Inc. since October 2009. From January 2006 until October 2009, Mr. Mansanti worked for Barrick Gold Corporation. From January 2008 until October 2009, Mr. Mansanti served as General Manager of Goldstrike Mines in Nevada where he was responsible for managing Barrick's largest gold producer at approximately 1.7 million ounces a year. From August 2006 until December 2008, Mr. Mansanti served as General Manager at the Cortez Gold Mine in Nevada where he was responsible for managing all aspects of the current operations and managing the engineering, underground development, and permitting associated with the Cortez Hills project. From June 2003 until August 2006, Mr. Mansanti served as General Manager at the Turquoise Ridge Joint Venture (a joint venture between Placer Dome Inc. and Newmont Mining Corporation until Barrick acquired Placer's assets in January 2006). While serving in this role, Mr. Mansanti was responsible for all aspects of restarting the underground mine and the joint ore tolling arrangement with Newmont. Kelvin G. Feist has served as Vice President of Marketing and Sales of Intrepid Potash, Inc. since February 2011. From August 1994 until January 2011, Mr. Feist held various positions with Agrium Inc. and its subsidiaries, most recently as Director of Potash Marketing from July 2010 to January 2011 and National Account Manager from July 2007 to July 2010. While at Agrium, a public company with shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Feist, among other things was responsible for all marketing and sales programs related to Agrium's potash portfolio, including matters relating to production and logistics. Brian D. Frantz has served as Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Intrepid Potash, Inc. since July 2010. From October 2008 until July 2010, Mr. Frantz served as Chief Financial Officer of Honnen Equipment Company, a private company specializing in selling and leasing construction equipment where he was responsible for all finance and accounting functions. From June 2008 until September 2008, Mr. Frantz served as Chief Financial Officer of DWF Wholesale Florists Company, a national wholesale florist. From June 1998 until May 2007, Mr. Frantz held various positions at RE/MAX International, Inc., most recently as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of RE/MAX International, Inc., a large private company engaged in the franchising of real estate brokerage businesses. While at RE/MAX International, Inc., Mr. Frantz was responsible for all financial and accounting matters, including budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, banking and tax planning. Prior to joining RE/MAX International, Inc., Mr. Frantz was a senior manager in the audit practice of Arthur Andersen LLP in Denver. Mr. Frantz had been with Arthur Andersen LLP since 1986, serving public and private companies primarily in the cable television, manufacturing, mining and real estate industries. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before buying shares of our stock. Our future performance is subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Additional risks not presently known to us, or that we currently deem immaterial, may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business Adverse conditions in the global economy could negatively impact our financial results and financial condition. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products, similar to the downturn we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008 and during 2009, could reduce demand 20 Table of Contents for our products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Product demand largely depends on the end-users of our products, the farmer. Economic conditions that reduce farmer confidence or discretionary spending may reduce product demand. In addition, if we are required to raise additional capital or are required to renew our current credit facility during an economic downturn, we may be unable to do so or may only be able to do so on unfavorable terms. Our potash sales are subject to price and demand volatility resulting from periodic imbalances of supply and demand, which may negatively affect our operating results. Historically, the market for potash has been cyclical, and the prices and demand for potash have fluctuated. Periods of high demand, increasing profits and high capacity utilization tend to lead to new plant investment and increased production. This growth continues until the market is over-saturated, leading to decreased prices and capacity utilization until the cycle repeats. Furthermore, individual potash producers have, at various times, independently suspended production in response to delayed purchasing decisions by potash customers in anticipation of lower prices. For example, during all of the fourth quarter of 2008 and through most of 2009, demand for potash contracted due to uncertainty resulting from the global financial crisis, decreases in commodity prices of agricultural products, concerns by farm producers about input costs, and the effect that lower prices for their products might have on farmers' operations. In turn, many individual potash producers responded to this demand contraction by independently curtailing potash production to match demand. As a result of these various factors, the price of potash can also be volatile. This volume and price volatility may reduce profit margins and negatively affect our operating results. We sell the majority of our potash into the spot market in the U.S. and generally have no long-term or material short-term contracts for the sale of potash. In addition, there is no active hedge market for potash as compared to the gold market, for example. As a result, we do not have and cannot obtain protection from this volume and price volatility. Changes in fertilizer application rates may aggravate the cyclicality of the prices and demand for our products. Farmers are able to maximize their economic return by applying optimum amounts of fertilizer. A farmer's decision about the application rate for each fertilizer, or his decision to forego application of a particular fertilizer, particularly potash and langbeinite, varies from year to year depending on a number of factors, such as crop prices, fertilizer and other crop input costs, and the level of crop nutrients remaining in the soil following the previous harvest. Farmers are more likely to increase application rates of fertilizers when crop prices are relatively high, fertilizer and other crop input costs are relatively low, and the level of crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively low. Conversely, farmers are likely to reduce or forego application of fertilizers when farm economics are weak or declining or the level of crop nutrients remaining in the soil is relatively high. This variability in application rates can materially aggravate the cyclicality of prices for our products and our sales volumes. Aggressive pricing strategies by our competitors could materially adversely affect our sales and profitability. Many of our competitors have significantly larger operations than we do and mine potash from reserves that are thicker, higher-grade and less geologically complex than our reserves. The large size of some of our competitors may give them greater leverage in pricing negotiations with customers and may enable them to negotiate better rates for transportation of products sold. The nature of our competitors' reserves and the economies of scale of their operations may allow them to mine their potash or langbeinite at a lower cost. If one or more of these competitors were to decide for any reason to aggressively lower prices in an attempt to increase their sales, our size and cost structure 21 Table of Contents might not allow us to match that pricing, such that we would likely lose sales and our operating results and profitability would be materially adversely affected. During periods when the prices for our products fall below our cost to produce them, we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. Any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our assets. We carry our inventories at the lower of cost or market. In periods when the market prices for our products fall below our cost to produce them and such lower prices are expected to be other than temporary, it is possible that we could be required to write down the value of our inventories. Any such write-down would adversely affect our results of operations and the carrying value of our assets. Any such effect could be material. Mining is a complex and hazardous process which frequently experiences production disruptions and the nature of our operations may make us more vulnerable to such disruptions than our competitors. The process of mining is complex and equipment- and labor-intensive, and involves risks and hazards including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, labor disputes, unusual or unexpected geological conditions or acts of nature. Production delays can occur due to equipment failures, unforeseen mining problems and other unexpected events. In addition, we must transport mined ore for long distances to remove it from the mines for processing, which creates a higher probability of accidents. Our facilities have been in operation longer than the average North American potash mine, and some of our equipment has had a long operating life and may require more maintenance or be more likely to fail than newer facilities or equipment. Our shafts at our West mine were constructed in 1931 and require frequent maintenance due to water inflow, wooden structure and salt buildup and are located in an area of known subsidence. Additionally, langbeinite ore is harder and more abrasive than muriate of potash ore and has caused greater wear on our mining and milling equipment at our East mine, which has increased and may continue to increase the expense and frequency of maintenance and repairs. Operational difficulties can also arise from our milling processes; for example, our East mine's mill experiences build-ups of glaserite, an undesirable by-product of langbeinite production that we must remove. In addition, the mixed ore body, which contains sulfates, can cause changes in brine chemistry that may impact potash production. Furthermore, production at our facilities is dependent upon the maintenance and geotechnical structural integrity of our tailings and storage ponds. The amounts that we are required to spend on maintenance and repairs may be significant and higher than expected, and we may have to divert resources from our planned capital expenditures focused on growth, such as increases in productive capacity, for use on capital expenditures to maintain existing capacity. Production delays or stoppages will adversely affect our sales and operating results, and higher than expected maintenance and repair expenses may adversely affect our operating results. The grade of ore that we mine may vary from our projections due to the complex geology of potash reserves, which could adversely affect our potash production and our financial results. Our potash production is affected by the ore grade, or the potassium content of the ore. Our projections of ore grade may vary from time to time, and the amount of potash that we actually produce may vary substantially from our projections. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore grade, including many factors beyond our control. Potash ore bodies have complex geology. The occurrence of large, unknown salt deposits, known as salt horsts, in core ore areas located near Carlsbad, New Mexico or Moab, Utah would adversely affect ore grades. An unexpected reduction in the grade of our ore reserves would decrease our potash production because we would need to process more ore to produce the same amount of saleable-grade product. As a result, our expected future cash flows would be materially adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our reserve estimates depend on many assumptions that may be inaccurate, which could materially adversely affect the quantities and value of our reserves. The actual amounts of muriate of potash and langbeinite we may be able to economically recover from our reserves may vary substantially from our reserve estimates. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves, including many factors beyond our control or ability to estimate. Estimates of muriate of potash and langbeinite reserves necessarily depend upon a number of variables and assumptions, any one of which, if incorrect, may result in an estimate that varies considerably from actual results. These factors and assumptions relate to: •geologic and mining conditions, which may not be fully identified by available exploration data and may differ from our experiences in areas where we currently mine or operate; •future potash prices, operating costs, capital expenditures, royalties, severance and excise taxes and development and reclamation costs; •future mining technology improvements; and •the effects of regulation by governmental agencies. Because reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is reviewed by a reserve engineer and geologist in sufficient detail to determine if, in the aggregate, the data provided by us are reasonable and sufficient to estimate reserves in conformity with practices and standards generally employed by and within the mining industry and in accordance with SEC requirements. The seasonal demand for our products and the variations in our cash flows from quarter to quarter may have an adverse effect on our operating results and make the price of our common stock more volatile. The fertilizer business is seasonal, with operating results that vary from quarter to quarter as a result of crop growing and harvesting seasons and weather conditions, as well as other factors. Over the last three years, we have averaged between 26 percent and 29 percent of our annual potash sales volume during the three-month period from February through April, when the demand for fertilizer typically peaks in the markets we serve. We and our customers generally build inventories during low-demand periods of the year in order to ensure timely product availability during peak sales seasons. Over the last three years, on average, approximately 20 percent of our total annual potash sales have occurred during the slower summer period between May and July. The seasonality of crop nutrient demand results in our sales volumes and net sales revenue typically being the highest during the North American spring season and our working capital requirements typically being the highest just before the start of the spring season. Our quarterly financial results can vary significantly from one year to the next due to weather-related shifts in planting schedules and purchasing patterns. If seasonal demand exceeds our projections, our customers may acquire products from our competitors, and our profitability could be materially reduced as a result. If seasonal demand is less than we expect, we will be left with excess inventory and higher working capital and liquidity requirements. Changes in laws and regulations affecting the mining industry and changes in enforcement practices could have an adverse effect on our operations and business. Our operations are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including MSHA and OSHA, and related state statutes and regulations. As a result of the mine explosion that occurred on April 5, 2010, at the Upper Big Branch Mine in West Virginia, or other high-profile mining incidents, it is possible that new laws and regulations could be enacted by Congress, MSHA, OSHA or other regulatory bodies. In addition, it is possible that enforcement of existing laws and regulations may become more stringent. Any changes in laws, regulations, or enforcement practices could have an adverse effect on our operations and business. 23 Table of Contents Climate change legislation and the physical effects of climate change may have a negative effect on our business and operations. There is a growing discussion that emissions of greenhouse gases ("GHG") may be altering the composition of the global atmosphere in ways that may be affecting, and may continue to affect, the global climate. Legislators and regulators are considering ways to reduce GHG emissions. There is also a growing possibility that some form of GHG emissions regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level. In 2010, New Mexico's Environmental Improvement Board passed rules designed to reduce GHG emissions and to establish a "cap-and-trade" program with respect to GHG emission "allowances." Such regulation could result in the creation of substantial additional costs for us. The effect of any future mandatory GHG legislative, regulatory, or product standard requirements on our business and products is dependent on the details of the mandate or standard, and we are therefore unable to predict the potential effects at this time. Moreover, the potential physical effects of climate change on our customers, and subsequently on our business and operations, are highly uncertain and will be particular to the circumstances developing in various geographical regions where our facilities and customers are located. These effects may include changes in weather patterns (including drought and rainfall levels), water availability, storm patterns and intensities, and temperature levels. Droughts or floods in certain geographic areas could cause demand for our product to decline and the amount of arable land in one or more of our markets to decrease. Extreme or unusual weather conditions could also cause production disruptions at our facilities which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results of financial condition. For example, there was a production disruption in December 2009 due to severe cold weather conditions at our Carlsbad East facility that reduced our normal potash production levels by nearly 90 percent for the month. Physical effects of climate change, if any, may adversely impact the costs, production, sales, and financial performance of our business and operations. Similarly, during July 2010, we ceased production of langbeinite at our East facility for a total of 14 days due to unusually heavy rainfall in the Carlsbad, New Mexico region in order to reduce our water consumption, maintain the brine storage capacity of our tailings ponds, and preserve additional pond storage capacity for future rainfall. Our business depends upon skilled and experienced personnel, and employee turnover may have a material adverse effect on our development and operating results. The success of our business and the achievement of certain business goals depends upon our ability to attract and retain skilled managers and other personnel. The labor market in the Carlsbad, New Mexico area, in particular, is very competitive. We compete for experienced laborers with other industries, including a nuclear waste management facility in southeast New Mexico, oil fields and other potash facilities near Carlsbad, and a new uranium enrichment facility in Eunice, New Mexico which is under construction. Employee turnover in proximity to Carlsbad has generally been high, and the continued expansion of nuclear facilities near Carlsbad threatens to increase competition for qualified workers. If we are not able to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business, we may not achieve certain business goals, or may have to raise wages to keep employees, hire less qualified workers, or incur higher training costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Prices of natural gas and other important materials and energy used in our business are volatile. Changes in the prices of materials or energy or disruptions to supply could adversely impact our business and our sales. Natural gas, electricity, steel and other maintenance materials, water, chemicals and fuel, including diesel and gasoline, are key materials purchased and used in the production of our potash products. Natural gas is a significant energy source used in the solution mining process at the Moab mine and at the East mine processing plant. Our sales and profitability from time to time have been and may in 24 Table of Contents the future be impacted by the price and availability of these materials and other energy costs. A significant increase in the price of natural gas, electricity and fuel that is not recovered through an increase in the price of our potash, or an extended interruption in the supply of natural gas, electricity, water or fuel to our production facilities, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. High natural gas costs also may increase crop input costs, which may cause our potash sales to decline. The price of natural gas in North America is highly volatile. Natural gas prices according to the El Paso Natural Gas Co. Permian Basin index, on which the prices we pay for natural gas are primarily based, have ranged from a high of $11.61 per MMBtu in July 2008 to a low of $2.55 per MMBtu in September 2009. Steel is a commodity that is also subject to volatile pricing. Over the last five years, hot rolled coil steel prices have ranged from a high of $1,095 per ton in July 2008 to a low of $382 per ton in June 2009. Our forecasts of capital expenditures are based on assumptions with respect to prices of skilled labor and commodities, including steel and concrete. We cannot predict future commodity prices, and if such prices are higher than expected, we may lose sales to competitors with lower production costs, our profitability could be materially adversely affected and our capital expenditures could increase. Any decline in U.S. agricultural production or limitations on the use of our products for agricultural purposes could materially adversely affect the market for our products. Conditions in the U.S. agricultural industry can significantly impact our operating results. The U.S. agricultural industry can be affected by a number of factors, including weather patterns and field conditions, current and projected grain inventories and prices, the domestic and international demand for U.S. agricultural products and U.S. and foreign policies regarding trade in agricultural products. State and federal governmental policies, including farm and ethanol subsidies and commodity support programs, may also directly or indirectly influence the number of acres planted, the mix of crops planted and the use of fertilizers for particular agricultural applications. In addition, there are various city, county and state initiatives to regulate the use and application of fertilizers due to various environmental concerns. A decline in oil and gas drilling or a reduction in the use of potash in drilling fluids in the Permian Basin or Rocky Mountain regions may increase our operating costs and decrease our average net realized sales price of potash. A significant portion of our sales consists of sales of standard-sized potash for use in oil and gas drilling fluids in the Permian Basin and Rocky Mountain regions. Declines in oil and gas drilling can have a negative impact on our average net realized sales price for our agricultural tons, as agricultural sales may require more costly transportation to more distant delivery points and we may incur additional costs to compact the standard-sized product into granular-sized product. Alternative products that have some of the clay-inhibiting properties of potash in oil and gas drilling fluids are commercially available. Depending upon the price of potash compared to the prices of these alternative products, these alternative products may temporarily or permanently replace some of our sales of standard-sized potash, which would reduce our industrial sales and result in the same increases in production costs and decreases in our profitability. Increased costs could affect our per ton profitability. Costs at any particular mining location are subject to variation due to a number of factors, such as changing ore grade, revisions to mine plans, and location of the ore bodies. A substantial portion of our operating cost structure is comprised of fixed costs consisting primarily of labor and benefits, base energy usage, property taxes, insurance, maintenance, and some depreciation; we also have variable 25 Table of Contents costs associated primarily with overtime and associated benefits, contractor labor, consumable operating supplies and chemicals, some level of energy and per unit depreciation. Because a portion of our operating costs are fixed, reductions in production tonnage could increase our per ton cost per ton sold and correspondingly decrease our operating margin on a per ton basis. A material increase in costs at any of our locations could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and cash flows. Some of our competitors have greater capital and human resources than we do, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage and adversely affect our sales and profitability. We compete with a number of producers in North America and throughout the world. Some of these competitors may have greater total resources than we do. Competition in our product lines is based on a number of considerations, including transportation costs, brand reputation, price and quality of client service and support. To remain competitive, we need to invest continuously in production infrastructure, marketing and customer relationships. We may have to adjust the prices of some of our products to stay competitive. We may also need to borrow funds and become leveraged. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make such investments or maintain our competitive position relative to some of our competitors who have greater capital and human resources. To the extent other potash producers enjoy competitive advantages, the price of our products, our sales volumes and our profits could be materially adversely affected. A shortage of railcars and trucks for carrying our products as well as increased transit time could result in customer dissatisfaction, loss of sales, higher transportation or equipment costs or disruptions in production. We rely heavily upon truck and rail transportation to deliver our products to our customers. In addition, the cost of transportation is an important component of the price of our products. Identifying and securing affordable and dependable transportation is important in supplying our customers and, to some extent, in avoiding delays in the delivery to us of chemicals and other supplies and equipment for our mining operations. A shortage of railcars for carrying product as well as increased transit time in North America due to congestion in the rail system could prevent us from making timely delivery to our customers or lead to higher transportation costs, either of which could result in customer dissatisfaction or loss of sales. In addition, PCS Sales, which markets our products internationally, may have difficulty obtaining access to ships for deliveries of our products to overseas buyers. Higher costs for transportation services or an interruption or slowdown in these transport services due to high demand, labor disputes, adverse weather or other environmental events, or changes to rail systems, could negatively affect our ability to produce our products or our ability to deliver our products to our customers, which would harm our performance and operating results. We rely on our management personnel for the development and execution of our business strategy, and the loss of any member of our management team may have a material adverse effect on our growth and operating results. Our management personnel have significant relevant industry experience. Our senior management team has developed and implemented first-of-their-kind processes and other innovative ideas that are largely responsible for the success of our business. The loss of the services of any of our management personnel could prevent us from achieving our business strategies or limit our business growth and operating results. We do not currently maintain "key person" life insurance on any of our key executives or management personnel. 26 Table of Contents Weakening of the Canadian dollar and Russian ruble against the U.S. dollar could lead to lower domestic potash prices, which would adversely affect our operating results, and fluctuations in these currencies may cause our operating results and our stock price to fluctuate. The U.S. imports the majority of its potash from Canada and Russia. If the Canadian dollar and the Russian ruble strengthen in comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign suppliers realize a smaller margin in their local currencies unless they increase their nominal U.S. dollar prices. Strengthening of the Canadian dollar and Russian ruble therefore tend to support higher U.S. potash prices as Canadian and Russian potash producers attempt to maintain their margins. However, if the Canadian dollar and Russian ruble weaken in comparison to the U.S. dollar, foreign competitors may choose to lower prices proportionally to increase sales volumes while again maintaining a margin in their local currency. A decrease in the average net realized sales price of our potash would adversely affect our operating results. Existing and further oil and gas development in the Potash Area in New Mexico could result in methane gas leaking into our mines that could result in the loss of life and significant property damage, and require indefinite suspension of operations unless extensive modifications were made to the mines. Our New Mexico operations are primarily on leased federal land administered by the BLM in the 497,000-acre Potash Area established by order of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior. Under our leases, the BLM retains the right to permit other uses of the land on which our leases are located. The Potash Area also contains significant oil and gas deposits that are below our potash reserves, and approximately 3,000 oil and gas wells have been drilled in the Potash Area. Several oil and gas companies are actively seeking BLM and state permits to drill additional wells in the Potash Area. Oil and gas drilling near our mines poses risks to our operations. It is possible to have leakage from an oil and gas well due to the failure of the borehole casing. Leaking hydrocarbons, mainly methane gas, could potentially migrate from a leaking borehole into our mine with the potential to cause an explosion. We test our mines for methane gas daily; however, unlike coal mines which are constructed and equipped to handle the presence of methane gas, our mines are not constructed or equipped to deal with methane gas. Any intrusion of methane gas into our mines could cause an explosion resulting in loss of life and significant property damage and require suspension of all mining operations until the completion of extensive modifications and re-equipping of the mine. The costs of modifying our mines and equipment could make it uneconomic to reopen our mines because our liability, casualty, and business interruption insurance would not be adequate to cover such catastrophic events. Existing and further oil and gas development in the Potash Area in New Mexico could prevent us from mining potash reserves or deposits within the necessary safety pillar around oil and gas wells. Presently, the drilling of oil and gas wells in the Potash Area is regulated by the 1986 Order of the U.S. Secretary of the Interior as to federal lands (which constitute the vast majority of the Potash Area). Similar State of New Mexico regulations govern state and fee lands in the Potash Area. The Secretary's Order and related regulations, with certain exceptions, restrict oil and gas drilling that would result in the undue waste of potash or would constitute a safety hazard to potash miners. Drilling that does not immediately affect our current operations may limit our ability to mine valuable potash reserves or deposits in the future because of setbacks from oil and gas wells. As a result, we will be unable to mine potash located within the appropriate "safety pillar" around an oil or gas well. We review applications for permits to drill oil and gas wells as they are publicly disclosed by the BLM and the State of New Mexico Oil and Gas Conservation Commission and, where appropriate, protest applications for drilling permits that we believe may impair our ability to mine our potash reserves or deposits and/or put at risk the safety of our potash miners. We may not prevail in any such protest or be able to prevent wells from being drilled in the vicinity of our potash reserves or deposits. Our 27 Table of Contents potash reserves or deposits may be significantly impaired if, notwithstanding our protests and appeals, a sufficient number of wells are drilled through or near our potash reserves or deposits. We expect oil and gas companies to continue to seek drilling permits and to contest our efforts to restrict drilling within certain locations within the Potash Area. In 2007, we lobbied to cause a reassessment by the BLM and Department of the Interior of their policies concerning granting of oil and gas drilling permits in the Potash Area in order to protect our existing operations and future potash reserves or deposits from the adverse effects of oil and gas drilling. In July 2007, the Department of the Interior said that it would conduct a new study on the safety of developing oil and gas wells in the Potash Area and, subsequently, it undertook another study to evaluate the use of certain technologies to map the potash resource within the Potash Area. In September 2009, Sandia National Laboratories ("Sandia"), acting under the direction of the BLM, issued its final report on the use of existing oil and gas logs to map the potash resources within the Potash Area and concluded that such logs do not contain sufficient information to meet the specific mineral requirements identified in the current potash standards. This conclusion could affect the future issuance of drilling permits and, therefore, could adversely affect our mining operations and the value of our potash reserves or deposits. Sandia's study, under direction of the BLM, of the risks of gas migration from oil and gas wells into proximately located potash mines is not yet completed but, once completed, could affect the future issuance of drilling permits and, therefore, could adversely affect our mining operations and the value of our potash reserves or deposits. Our operations depend on our having received and continuing to maintain the required permits and approvals from and lease negotiations with, governmental authorities. We hold numerous governmental, environmental, mining and other permits and approvals authorizing operations at each of our facilities. A decision by a governmental agency to deny or delay issuing a new or renewed permit or approval, or to revoke or substantially modify an existing permit or approval, could prevent or limit our ability to continue operations at the affected facility and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Expansion of our existing operations also would require securing the necessary environmental and other permits and approvals, which we may not receive in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, the federal government may require an environmental assessment or EIS as a condition of approving a project or permit, which could result in additional time delays and costs. Furthermore, our mining operations take place on land that is leased from federal and state governmental authorities. Expansion of our existing operations may require securing additional federal and state leases, which we may not obtain in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, our existing leases generally require us to commence mining operations within a specified time frame and to continue mining in order to retain the lease. The loss of a lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. Also, our existing leases require us to make royalty payments based on the revenue generated by the potash we produce from the leased land. The royalty rates are subject to change, which may lead to significant increases, at the time we renew our leases. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 58 percent of our state and federal lease acres at our New Mexico facilities (including leases at the HB and North mines) and approximately 13 percent of our state and federal lease acres at our Utah operations will be up for renewal within the next five years. Increases in royalty rates would reduce our profit margins and, if such increases were significant, would adversely affect our operating results. On December 14, 2010, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed a rule to list the dunes sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus arenicolus), a species known to live in southeastern New Mexico and adjacent west Texas, as endangered under the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (the "Endangered Species Act"). If the rule is finalized as proposed, it would extend the Endangered Species Act's protections to the dunes sagebrush lizard. The listing of the dunes sagebrush lizard as endangered under the Endangered Species Act could have a material adverse effect on Intrepid's 28 Table of Contents operations in southeastern New Mexico, including its development of the HB Solar Solution mine project. Specifically, the listing of this species could result in increased operational costs and, possibly, limitations or prohibitions on certain of Intrepid's operations in the area. Our plans for reopening the HB Solar Solution mine and developing additional strategic growth opportunities may require more time and greater capital spending than we expected. We currently plan to reopen the HB Solar Solution mine as a solution mine. We commissioned an independent mining consulting firm to review our estimates of the reserves related to this project, and the firm's reserve study was completed in March 2008. Reopening the mine will be subject to significant costs and risks. In January 2009, the BLM determined that an EIS would be required for the HB Solar Solution mine project. Oil and gas lessees in the region expressed concern with the project to the BLM, which, we believe, was a contributing factor in the BLM's decision to require completion of an EIS for the project. We were notified in January 2010 by the BLM's consultant that the schedule for the EIS review process has been extended in order for the BLM to complete preparation and review of the preliminary draft EIS. The revised schedule reflects issuance of a Record of Decision during the first quarter of 2012. We received the ground water discharge permit for the HB Solar Solution mine project from NMED in July 2010 and are in the process of obtaining the NMED air quality permit for the project. Once the remaining regulatory approvals are obtained, we anticipate promptly commencing construction. We estimate that first production will result approximately 18 months after construction begins with ramp up to full production expected in the succeeding year, reflecting the benefit of a complete annual evaporation cycle applied to full evaporation ponds. Although the current estimate for the completion of the EIS process is in the first quarter of 2012, continued opposition to the project by oil and gas lessees or other third parties may further delay or prevent the reopening of the mine. In addition, we may be unable to obtain some or all of the regulatory approvals and permits in a timely manner, on reasonable terms, or at all. As of December 31, 2010, we have invested approximately $27 million in capital related to the re-opening of the HB Solar Solution mine, some of which could become impaired if some or all of the regulatory approvals and permits are not obtained in a timely manner or at all. Even if we obtain all required approvals and permits, it may be several years before the mine produces potash, and construction of the well facilities, solar ponds, processing plant, and associated infrastructure may take longer or cost significantly more than we expect. We may be unable to produce potash economically from the HB Solar Solution mine if reopened, or our profitability from the project may be lower than we expect. We are also considering various other potential opportunities for revenue and strategic growth, including potentially reopening the idled North mine. These potential plans are at an early stage, and we may not actually proceed with any of them. If we do choose to proceed with any such opportunity, the project may not succeed, despite our having made substantial investments; it may cost significantly more than we expect; or we may encounter additional risks which we cannot anticipate at this time. New long-term product supply can create structural market imbalances, which could negatively affect our operating results and financial performance. Potash is a commodity, and the market for potash is highly competitive and affected by global supply and demand. Producers have been, and will likely continue to be, engaged in expansion and development projects to increase production. Many of these projects to increase potash production on a long-term basis are speculative. However, if potash production is increased beyond potash demand, the price at which we sell our potash and our sales volume would likely fall, which would materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents The market for langbeinite is still developing and could be affected by new market entrants or the introduction of langbeinite alternatives. Langbeinite, a low-chloride source of potassium, is produced by Intrepid and The Mosaic Company from the only known langbeinite reserves in the world located in the Carlsbad, New Mexico region. The demand for langbeinite has been limited due mostly to its limited supply and availability, and it is difficult to determine how the supply, demand and pricing for langbeinite will develop. Furthermore, additional competition in the market for langbeinite and comparable products exists and may increase in the future. A German company is currently producing a low-chloride fertilizer similar to langbeinite, and Chinese producers are working on a project to synthesize a product similar to langbeinite from brines, with a goal of producing significant amounts of this competing product in the near future. In the past, we have sold standard-sized Trio® to customers in China. In the future, our sales to customers in China may be reduced to the extent China is able to produce a product similar to langbeinite or if there is an overall decrease in demand for potassium-containing product to be imported into the country. Other companies may seek to create and market chemically similar alternatives to langbeinite. The market for langbeinite and our Trio® sales may be affected by the success of these and other competitive sources for langbeinite, which could materially adversely affect the viability of our Trio® business and our operating results and financial condition. As a potash-only producer, we are less diversified than nearly all of our competitors, and a decrease in the demand for potash and langbeinite or an increase in potash supply could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dedicated exclusively to the production and marketing of potash and langbeinite, whereas nearly all of our competitors are diversified, primarily into other nitrogen and phosphate-based fertilizer businesses and other chemical and industrial businesses. As a result of our potash focus and domestic geographic focus, we would likely be impacted more acutely by factors affecting our industry or the regions in which we operate than we would if our business were more diversified and our sales more global. A decrease in the demand for potash and langbeinite could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, a large increase in potash supply could also materially impact our financial condition more than our diversified competitors. Inflows of water into our potash mines from heavy rainfall or groundwater could result in increased costs and production down time and may require us to abandon a mine, either of which could adversely affect our operating results. Major weather events such as heavy rainfall can result in water inflows into our mines. The effects of climate change, if any, may increase the possibility of heavy rainfall that results in water inflows into our mines. In October 2006, water inflows from rainfall caused unused utilities in a mine shaft at our West mine to break loose and block the mine shaft. As a result, we were forced to shut down the West mine for 54 days to remove the utilities and improve water controls in the shaft. The shutdown significantly lowered our 2006 potash production from the West mine. Additionally, the presence of water-bearing strata in many underground mines carries the risk of water inflows into the mines. If we experience additional water inflows at our mines in the future, our employees could be injured and our equipment and mine shafts could be seriously damaged. We might be forced to shut down the affected mine temporarily, potentially resulting in significant production delays, and spend substantial funds to repair or replace damaged equipment. Inflows may also destabilize the mine shafts over time, resulting in safety hazards for employees and potentially leading to the permanent abandonment of a mine. 30 Table of Contents Heavy fall precipitation or low evaporation rates at our Moab and Wendover facilities and at our planned HB Solar Solution mine could delay our potash production at those facilities, which could adversely affect our sales and operating results. Our facilities in Moab and Wendover, Utah, and our planned HB Solar Solution mine will use solar evaporation ponds to form potash crystals from brines. This process is limited by rainfall and evaporation rates. It is possible that the effects of climate change, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our production of potash using solar evaporation processes. Heavy rainfall in September and October, just after the evaporation season ends, would temporarily reduce the amount of potash we can produce by causing the potash crystals to dissolve. Lower than average temperatures and higher than average seasonal rainfall reduce evaporation rates, which also would temporarily limit the amount of potash we are able to produce and in turn push that production into later quarters or years. If these weather conditions occur at any or all of our Moab and Wendover facilities and our planned HB Solar Solution mine, we would have less potash available for sale, and our sales and operating results could be materially adversely affected. As the number of our solar ponds increases, our production risks related to rainfall and evaporation rates will increase. Environmental laws and regulations may subject us to significant liability and require us to incur additional costs in the future. We are subject to many environmental, safety and health laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to mine safety, mine land reclamation, remediation of hazardous substance releases, and the regulation of discharges into the soil, air and water. Operations by us and our predecessors have involved the historical use and handling of regulated substances, hydrocarbons, potash, salt, related potash and salt by-products, and process tailings. These operations resulted, or may have resulted, in soil, surface water and groundwater contamination. At some locations, there are areas where salt-processing waste, building materials (including asbestos-containing transite) and ordinary trash may have been disposed or buried, and have since been closed and covered with soil and other materials. Under environmental remediation laws such as the CERCLA, liability is imposed, without regard to fault or to the legality of a party's conduct, on certain categories of persons (known as "potentially responsible parties") who are considered to have contributed to the release of "hazardous substances" into the environment. We may in the future incur material liabilities under CERCLA and other environmental remediation laws, with regard to our current or former facilities, adjacent or nearby third party facilities or off-site disposal locations. Under CERCLA, or its various state analogues, one party may, under some circumstances, be required to bear more than its proportional share of cleanup costs at a site where it has liability if payments cannot be obtained from other responsible parties. Liability under these laws involves inherent uncertainties. Previously, governmental agencies have required us to undertake certain remedial activities to address identified site conditions. For example, we have worked with Utah officials to address asbestos-related issues at our Moab mine. Many of our facilities also contain permitted asbestos landfills, some of which have been closed. Additionally, we are currently working with federal officials to resolve issues concerning the disposal of asbestos-containing transite at an unpermitted location at our West mine, which may require additional removal of transite material, a land swap or another remedy. Additionally, certain environmental laws, such as the U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Clean Air Act, regulate and permit discharges of pollutants and contaminants into the environment. Violations of these environmental, health and safety laws are subject to civil, and in some cases criminal, sanctions. We may in the future incur material liabilities under the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, or similar federal and state laws due to: •changes in the interpretation of environmental laws; 31 Table of Contents •modifications to current environmental laws; •the issuance of more stringent environmental laws in the future; or •malfunctioning process or pollution control equipment. For example, our water disposal processes rely on dikes and reclamation ponds which could breach or leak, resulting in a possible release into the environment. Moreover, although the North and East mines in New Mexico and the Moab mine in Utah are designated as zero discharge facilities under the applicable water quality laws and regulations, these mines may experience some water discharges during significant rainfall events. Also, changes to existing environmental laws or permits, or the issuance of more stringent environmental laws or permits, could require additional equipment, facilities, or employees to address water disposal issues. Mining and processing of potash also generates residual materials that must be managed both during the operation of the facility and upon facility closure. For example, potash tailings, consisting primarily of salt, iron and clay, are stored in surface disposal sites and require management. At least one of our New Mexico mining facilities, the HB Solar Solution mine, may have issues regarding lead in the tailings pile as a result of operations conducted by previous owners. During the life of the tailings management areas, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs to manage potash residual materials in accordance with environmental laws and regulations and permit requirements. As a potash producer, we currently are exempt from certain State of New Mexico mining laws related to reclamation obligations. If this exemption were to be eliminated or restricted in the future, we might be required to incur significant expenses related to reclamation at our Carlsbad, New Mexico facilities. Government and public emphasis on environmental issues can be expected to result in future investments for environmental controls at ongoing operations, which will be charged against income from future operations. Present and future environmental laws and regulations applicable to our operations may require substantial capital expenditures and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For more information, see "Business—Environmental, Health and Safety Matters." Our indebtedness, if any, could adversely affect our financial condition and impair our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility allows us to borrow up to $125 million. Our indebtedness, if any, could have important consequences, including the following: •it may limit our ability to borrow money or sell additional shares of common stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures and debt service requirements; •it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •we may become more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; •it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy; •it could require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes; and •it may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition if we are unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed. 32 Table of Contents In addition, our credit facility contains financial and other restrictive covenants that may limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all outstanding borrowings, if any, under our credit facility. Our credit facility is scheduled to expire in 2012. We may be unable to obtain new financing or financing on acceptable terms. The mining business is capital-intensive, and the inability to fund necessary or desirable capital expenditures could have an adverse effect on our growth and profitability. The mining business is capital-intensive. We anticipate making significant capital expenditures over the next several years in connection with the development of new projects such as reopening the HB Solar Solution mine, the various expansions at our existing operating facilities and sustaining existing operations, including the Langbeinite Recovery Improvement Project and the expansion of granulation capacity in Wendover, Utah and at our facilities in Carlsbad, New Mexico. Costs associated with capital expenditures have escalated on an industry-wide basis over the last several years, largely as a result of major factors beyond our control such as increases in the price of steel and other commodities. As costs associated with capital expenditures continue to increase, we could have difficulty funding or be unable to fund needed or planned capital expenditures, which would limit the expansion of our production or the inability to sustain our existing operations at optimal levels. Increased costs for capital expenditures could also have an adverse effect on the profitability of our existing operations and returns from our new projects. Market upheavals due to global pandemics, military actions, terrorist attacks and any global and domestic economic repercussions from those events could reduce our sales and revenues. Global pandemics, actual or threatened armed conflicts, future terrorist attacks or military or trade disruptions affecting the areas where we or our competitors do business may disrupt the global market for potash. As a result, our competitors may increase their sales efforts in our geographic markets and pricing of potash may suffer. If this occurs, we may lose sales to our competitors or be forced to lower our prices, which would reduce our revenues. In addition, due to concerns related to terrorism or the potential use of certain fertilizers as explosives, local, state and federal governments could implement new regulations impacting the production, transportation, sale or use of potash. Any such regulations could result in higher operating costs or limitations on the sale of our potash and could result in significant unanticipated costs, lower revenues and reduced profit margins. If we are unsuccessful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements, we may experience significant increases in the cost of labor or a disruption in our Wendover operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had 803 total employees. Approximately 4 percent of our workforce, consisting solely of certain employees in Wendover, is represented by labor unions. Our collective bargaining agreement with our hourly employees in Wendover expires on May 31, 2011. This is the fourth agreement negotiated between us and the United Steelworkers, AFL-CIO, on behalf of Local 876. Although we believe that our relations with our employees are good, as a result of general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, political and other factors beyond our control, we may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. Such negotiations may result in significant increases in the cost of labor and a breakdown in such negotiations could disrupt our Wendover operations. If employees at any of our other facilities were to unionize in the future, these risks would increase. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or part of your investment. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations in response to general economic and market conditions and their effect on various industries. This market volatility could cause the price of our common stock to decline significantly and without regard to our operating performance, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid for them. Those fluctuations could be based on various factors in addition to those otherwise described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including: •our operating performance and the performance of our competitors; •the public's reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements and our filings with the SEC; •changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts who follow Intrepid or other companies in our industry; •variations in general economic, market and political conditions; •actions of our current stockholders, including sales of common stock by former members of Mining or our directors and executive officers; •the arrival or departure of key personnel; and •other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may cause declines in the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with Intrepid or its performance, and those fluctuations could materially reduce our common stock price. We may issue additional securities, including securities that are senior in right of dividends, liquidation and voting to the common stock, without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our restated certificate of incorporation allows us to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock without the approval of our stockholders, except as may be required by applicable New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") rules. Our board of directors may approve the issuance of preferred stock with terms that are senior to our common stock in right of dividends, liquidation or voting. The issuance by us of additional common shares or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our stockholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and •the market price of the common stock may decline. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common 34 Table of Contents stock. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of our common stock would have on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. Other than the dividend paid in connection with our formation, we have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. At the current time and for the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent our acquisition by a third party. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various barriers to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors. These provisions may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. Among other things, these provisions: •authorize us to issue preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, except as may be required by applicable NYSE rules, with rights senior to those of common stock; •do not permit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •require vacancies and newly created directorships on the board of directors to be filled only by a majority of the directors then serving on the board; •establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and •classify our board of directors so that only some of our directors are elected each year. These provisions also may delay, prevent or deter a merger, acquisition, tender offer, proxy contest or other transaction that might otherwise result in our stockholders' receiving a premium over the market price for their common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Intrepid has no unresolved comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports under the Securities Act. 