ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In evaluating the Company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the price, supply or demand for natural gas could have an adverse impact on sales of our separation and filtration systems and products and our operating results. A large portion of our separation/filtration systems business is driven by the construction of natural gas infrastructure. Increased demand for natural gas may result in the construction of additional infrastructure. Higher prices of natural gas, while beneficial to exploration activities and the financing of new projects, can adversely impact the demand for natural gas. Excess supply could also negatively impact the price of natural gas, which could discourage spending on related capital projects. Changes in the power generation industry could have an adverse impact on sales of our environmental control systems and products and our operating results. The demand for our environmental control systems and products depends in part on the continued construction of new power generation and related facilities and the retrofitting of existing facilities. The power generation industry is cyclical and has experienced periods of slow or no growth in the past. Any change in the power generation industry that results in a decrease in new construction or refurbishing of power plants, in particular natural gas facilities, could have a material adverse impact on our environmental systems segment’s revenues and our results of operations. Changes in current environmental legislation could have an adverse impact on the sale of our environmental control systems and products and on our operating results. Our environmental systems business is primarily driven by capital spending by our customers to comply with laws and regulations governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment or human health. These laws include U.S. federal statutes such as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), and the regulations implementing these statutes, as well as similar laws and regulations at state and local levels and in other countries. These U.S. laws and regulations may change and other countries may not adopt similar laws and regulations. In July 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated the CAIR in its entirety and instructed the Environmental Protection Agency to issue a new rule. Our business may be adversely impacted by this court ruling and may also be adversely impacted to the extent that other regulations requiring the reduction of NOx emissions are repealed, amended or implementation dates delayed or to the extent that regulatory authorities reduce enforcement. The acquisition of Nitram was significantly larger than any other acquisition we have made. This acquisition could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition if we are not able to successfully integrate the acquired business or if we are not able to achieve the expected benefits of this transaction. We completed the acquisition of Nitram in April 2008. This acquisition is the largest and most significant in our history. As a result of the acquisition, we are integrating Nitram’s operations with our existing operations. To realize the anticipated benefits of this acquisition, we are also implementing and integrating new management and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties and higher than expected costs in integrating Nitram’s operations and implementing these 14 Table of Contents systems. This integration may require significant time and attention from our management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from our day-to-day operations. Further, because we historically have not engaged in significant acquisition transactions, our senior management has very limited experience in integrating acquired businesses. The success of the Nitram acquisition will also depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenues and cost savings opportunities from combining the Nitram business with our business. We cannot assure you that our financial results will meet or exceed the financial results that would have been achieved without this acquisition. If our integration of Nitram is not successful or if Nitram’s operations are less profitable than we currently anticipate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We incurred substantial debt in connection with our acquisition of Nitram. Our substantial indebtedness and related debt service obligations could have a negative impact on our business. We incurred substantial debt in connection with our acquisition of Nitram. As of June 30, 2008, we had $60 million of outstanding indebtedness, comprised of a $40 million senior secured term loan and $20 million of secured subordinated debt. We also have a revolving credit facility available for working capital needs. We have not utilized the revolving credit facility and, as of June 30, 2008, we had approximately $8.9 million available (subject to borrowing base restrictions) for borrowing. Among other things, our substantial indebtedness and debt service obligations: • limit the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • limit our ability to pay cash dividends; • limit our ability to dispose of subsidiaries and other assets; and • make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, increased competition and adverse industry conditions, which places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our long-term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon our future performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by economic and capital markets conditions, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: • reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • seeking additional debt financing or equity capital; 15 Table of Contents • selling assets; or • restructuring or refinancing debt. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. Restrictions in our debt agreements limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Prior to entering into the debt agreements to finance the Nitram acquisition, we had no long-term debt and substantial cash balances. Our debt agreements contain covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy financial tests and maintain financial ratios, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum net worth requirement. Among other things, these covenants and events of default limit our ability to, or do not permit us to: • incur additional debt; • create or permit to exist certain liens; • redeem or prepay certain debt (including our new subordinated secured term loan); • pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • make acquisitions and other investments; • engage in specified asset sales, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; and • make capital expenditures. Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants, including the required financial ratios. Failure to comply with any of these debt covenants would result in a default under these debt agreements. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Moreover, any of our debt agreements that contain a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision that would be triggered by such default or acceleration would also be subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of such default or acceleration. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by these debt agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions may significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing and may prevent us from taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. A portion of our debt is subject to variable interest rates. If interest rates increase, our interest expense will also increase. We incurred $40 million of variable rate debt in connection with the Nitram acquisition. In addition, we pay interest based on variable interest rates under our new revolving credit facility. If market interest rates increase, our interest payments will increase, adversely affecting our cash flow and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees, including engineers. We do not have employment contracts with each of our executive officers. The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business or business prospects. In addition, we do not maintain key-person insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers or other employees and the loss of any one of them could disrupt our business. Our industry has recently experienced shortages in the availability of skilled workers. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations require the services of employees having technical training and related experience, including certified welders. As a result, our operations depend on the continuing availability of qualified employees. Our industry is experiencing shortages of workers with the necessary skills. If we should suffer any material loss of these employees to competitors, or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid to these workers by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. Competition could result in lower sales, decreased margins and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets worldwide, and contracts for our systems and products are generally awarded on a competitive basis. We face competition from potential new competitors that in some cases face low barriers to entry, specialized competitors that focus on competing with only one of our systems or products and low cost competitors that are able to produce similar systems and products for less. Competition could result in not only a reduction in our sales, but also may lower the prices we can charge for our systems and products and reduce our market share. To remain competitive we must be able to anticipate and respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance and upgrade our existing systems and products to meet those needs. We must also be able to price our systems and products competitively and make timely delivery of our systems and products. Our competitors may develop less expensive or more efficient systems and products, may be willing to charge lower prices in order to increase market share and may be better equipped to make deliveries to customers on a more timely basis. Some of our competitors have more capital and resources than we do and may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. In addition, despite increased market demand, we may not be able to realize higher prices for our systems and products because we have competitors that use cost-plus pricing and do not set prices in accordance with market demand. If actual costs for our projects with fixed-price contracts exceed our original estimates, or if we are required to pay liquidated damages due to late delivery, our profits will be reduced or we may suffer losses. The majority of our contracts are fixed-price contracts from which we have limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long-term nature of our contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including: • increases in cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; • errors in estimates or bidding; • unanticipated technical problems; 17 Table of Contents • variations in productivity; • required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. In addition to increasing costs, these factors could also delay delivery of our products. Our contracts often provide for liquidated damages in the case of late delivery. Unanticipated costs that we cannot pass on to our customers under fixed contracts, such as increases in steel prices, or liquidated damages that we are required to pay in the case of late delivery, could negatively impact our profits. Increasing costs for manufactured components and raw materials, such as steel, may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, primarily raw steel and steel-related components. The costs for many of these components and materials have increased. Further increases in the price of these items could further materially increase our operating costs and materially adversely affect our profit margins. The inability of our engineering or manufacturing operations to meet customer demand for new orders with short delivery times may require us to outsource additional aspects of our business, resulting in increased variable costs incurred by us that are not included in our manufacturing overhead. Our engineering and manufacturing operations require a highly skilled workforce for which there is increasing demand and short supply in a very competitive environment. Consequently, increased demand to produce product orders that require tight delivery and short order cycle times may require us to outsource the engineering or manufacturing of these orders. The additional expense incurred to outsource these functions is a variable cost that is not part of our manufacturing overhead, and the incurrence of this variable cost could negatively affect our profit margins. Our use of subcontractors could harm our profitability and business reputation. We employ subcontractors at various locations around the world to meet our customers’ needs in a timely manner, meet local content requirements and reduce costs. Subcontractors generally perform the majority of our manufacturing for international customers. We also utilize subcontractors in North America, primarily to add additional non-proprietary manufacturing capacity. The use of subcontractors decreases our control over the performance of these functions and could result in project delays, escalated costs and substandard quality. These risks could adversely affect our profitability and business reputation. In addition, many of our competitors, who have greater financial resources and greater bargaining power than we have, use the same subcontractors that we use and could potentially influence our ability to hire these subcontractors. If we were to lose relationships with key subcontractors, our business could be adversely impacted. Customers may cancel or delay projects. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Our orders generally contain cancellation provisions which permit us to recover our costs, and for most contracts, a portion of our anticipated profit in the event a customer cancels an order. If a customer cancels an order, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of our revenues could be affected and projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. 18 Table of Contents Revenue recognition occurs over long periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of our quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues. Our ability to conduct business outside the United States may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control and our revenues and profits from international sales could be adversely impacted. Revenues generated outside the United States represented 36.8%, 37.3% and 48.7% of our consolidated revenues during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our operations and earnings throughout the world have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degrees by a number of factors, including changes in foreign laws and regulations, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, customs and tariffs, government sanctions, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates. The likelihood of the occurrence and the overall effect on our business vary from country to country and are not predictable. These factors may result in a decline in revenues or profitability, could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States and may impact our ability to deliver our products and collect our receivables. Our financial performance may vary significantly from period to period, making it difficult to estimate future revenues. Our revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our contracts generally stipulate customer specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects these contracts to many factors beyond our control. In addition, contracts that are significantly larger in size than our typical contracts tend to have a greater impact on our operating results. Furthermore, as a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated decrease in our revenues, a delay or cancellation of orders in backlog, or a decrease in the demand for our products, may have a significant impact on our operating results. Therefore, our operating results may be subject to significant variations and our operating performance in any period may not be indicative of our future performance. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues may result in material adjustments that would adversely affect our operating results. Substantially all of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are accrued based generally on the percentage of costs to date compared to total estimated costs. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and our historical experience. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Accordingly, we periodically review and revise these estimates, with adjustments to revenues reflected in the period when the revisions are made. Adjustments to revenues resulting from revisions to estimates and variations of actual results from estimates could materially affect our operating results. Changes in our product mix can have a significant impact on our profit margins. Some of our products have higher profit margins than others. Consequently, changes in the product mix of our sales from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported profit margins. Some of our products also have a much higher internally manufactured cost component. Therefore, changes from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported margins through a change in our manufacturing costs, and specifically in our manufacturing costs as a percentage of sales. 19 Table of Contents Our systems and products are covered by warranties. Unanticipated warranty costs for defective systems and products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation. In addition, an increase in the number of systems we sell, compared to individual products that our customers use as components in other systems, may increase our warranty costs. We offer warranty periods of various lengths to our customers depending upon the specific system or product and terms of the customer agreement. Among other things, warranties require us to repair or replace faulty systems or products. While we continually monitor our warranty claims and provide a reserve for estimated warranty issues on an on-going basis, an unanticipated claim could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we may be able to recover a portion of our warranty cost from a subcontractor if the subcontractor supplied the defective product or performed the service. However, this recovery may not always be possible. The need to repair or replace systems and products with design or manufacturing defects could temporarily delay the sale of new systems and products, reduce our profits, cause us to suffer a loss and could adversely affect our reputation. Furthermore, average warranty costs for complete systems are higher than warranty costs for individual products that our customers use as components in other systems due to complete systems being more complex. As a result, our transition to offering more complete systems may increase our warranty costs. Our systems and products could be subject to product liability claims and litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and harm our business reputation. We manufacture systems and products that create exposure to product liability claims and litigation. If our systems and products are not properly manufactured or designed, personal injuries or property damage could result, which could subject us to claims for damages. The costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. Our reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, and such claims could lead to decreased demand for our systems and products. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient to cover such claims. We may be subject to product liability claims for personal injury and property damage. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business. However, this insurance may not protect us against liability from some kinds of events, including events involving losses resulting from business interruption. We cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our systems and products that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our accounts receivable are related to large contracts from customers in the same markets, which increases our exposure to credit risk. We monitor the credit worthiness of our customers. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom systems and products and whose activities are related to the power generation, natural gas infrastructure and refining and petrochemical processing markets. As a result, our exposure to credit risk is affected to some degree by conditions within these markets and governmental and political conditions. We attempt to reduce our exposure to credit risk by requiring progress payments and letters of credit. However, unanticipated events that affect our customers could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents Changes in billing terms can increase our exposure to working capital and credit risk. We generally sell our systems and products under contracts that allow us to either bill upon the completion of certain agreed upon milestones, or upon actual shipment of the system or product. We attempt to negotiate progress-billing milestones on large contracts to help us manage the working capital and to reduce the credit risk associated with these large contracts. Consequently, shifts in the billing terms of the contracts in our backlog from period to period can increase our requirement for working capital and can increase our exposure to credit risk. Our customers may require us to perform portions of our projects in their local countries. Some foreign countries have regulations requiring that, and some customers in foreign countries prefer that, a certain degree of local content be included in projects destined for installation in their country. These requirements and preferences may require us to outsource significant functions to manufacturers in foreign countries or otherwise to establish manufacturing capabilities in foreign countries. These requirements may negatively impact our profit margins and present project management issues. We are subject to export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations of the United States, including the trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. In April 2008, Burgess-Manning, Inc., a subsidiary of Nitram, made a voluntary disclosure to OFAC regarding sales of industrial separators to Iran. In connection with the Nitram acquisition, $10.9 million of the purchase price was placed in escrow to reimburse us for breach of representation and certain other claims, including potential costs, fines or penalties related to the OFAC voluntary disclosure. We cannot predict the response of OFAC, the outcome of any related proceeding, the likelihood that future proceedings will be instituted against us or whether the amount held in escrow will be adequate to cover these costs. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any proceeding, we may be required to pay fines and penalties that could harm our business and financial results. The implementation of enterprise resource planning software requires substantial resources and could have a negative impact on our business. We commenced implementation of an enterprise resource planning software in fiscal 2008. This implementation will be extended to Nitram’s operations in fiscal 2009. This implementation requires significant resources and could detract from our operations during the implementation phase. The implementation requires significant efforts from our existing personnel. The complexities of the implementation and additional demands on our staff could have a material adverse effect on our business. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis. Aside from our recent acquisition of Nitram, we have limited experience with acquisitions. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than we do. Borrowings necessary to finance acquisitions may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially 21 Table of Contents dilutive issuances of equity securities. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s attention; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities, known and unknown; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses, and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • the adverse impact on our earnings of the amortization of identifiable intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions; • the adverse impact on our earnings of impairment charges related to goodwill recorded as a result of acquisitions should we ever make such a determination that the goodwill or other intangibles related to any of our acquisitions was impaired; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • assimilating the operations of the acquired businesses, including differing technology, business systems and corporate cultures; • achieving operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from the acquisitions; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; and • failing to retain key personnel of, vendors to and customers of the acquired businesses. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary business. Our ability to obtain financing for future growth opportunities may be limited. Our ability to execute our growth strategies may be limited by our ability to secure and retain reasonably priced financing. Some of our competitors are larger companies that may have better access to capital and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us should our access to capital be limited. Our management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008 excluded the operations of Nitram. If we are not able to integrate Nitram’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting, our internal control over financial reporting will not be effective. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to furnish a management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. As a public company, we are required to report, among other things, control deficiencies that constitute a “material weakness” or changes in internal control that materially affect, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a 22 Table of Contents material misstatement of the registrant’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Complying with Section 404 is time consuming and costly. Prior to its acquisition by us, Nitram was a private company and was not required to comply with Section 404. The integration of Nitram’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting will require additional time and resources from our management and other personnel and may increase our compliance costs. Our management certification and auditor attestation regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2008 excluded the operations of Nitram. Failure to comply with Section 404, including a delay in or failure to successfully integrate Nitram’s operations into our internal control over financial reporting, or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements and the trading price of our common stock may decline. If we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, our access to the capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. Provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover that individual stockholders may consider favorable or the removal of our current management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that individual stockholders may consider favorable or the removal of our current management. These provisions: • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. In addition, purchase rights distributed under our stockholder rights plan will cause substantial dilution to any person or group attempting to acquire us without conditioning the offer on our redemption of the rights. As a result, our stock price may decrease and you might not receive a change of control premium over the then-current market price of the common stock. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. As a result, our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to us, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations. 23 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are generated outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. Foreign currency fluctuations may also make our systems and products more expensive for our customers, which could have a negative impact on our sales. In addition, we purchase some foreign-made products directly and through our subcontractors. Due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure. We cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our direct or indirect cost of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. Our business is subject to risks of terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. Terrorist acts, acts of war, or national disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as those of our customers. These types of acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could weaken the domestic and global economies and create additional uncertainties, thus forcing our customers to reduce their capital spending, or cancel or delay already planned construction projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of August 29, 2008, we had 13,080,134 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Market, for the 50 trading days ended August 29, 2008 was less than 110,000 shares. A more active public market for our common stock may not develop, which could adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Moreover, a thin trading market for our stock could cause the market price for our common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a larger float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, you may be unable to liquidate your shares of our common stock at a price satisfactory to you. 24 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility, and the price of our common stock has increased significantly since June 30, 2006. During the period beginning July 1, 2006 through August 29, 2008, the sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market have ranged from a low of $5.06 to a high of $30.75 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • any issuances of additional shares of our common stock; • general economic conditions or trends, or conditions or trends in our industry, including demand for our systems and products, technological advances and governmental regulations; • the price of natural gas; • announcements of technological advances by us or our competitors; • changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance or recommendations; • rumors or dissemination of false and/or unofficial information; • transactions in our common stock by our management; • litigation involving or affecting us, and • additions or departures of our key personnel. If any of these risks and other factors beyond our control were to occur, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 25 Table of Contents 