Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Prospective investors should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included or referred to in this prospectus, before purchasing shares of our common stock. There are numerous and varied risks that may prevent us from achieving our goals. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to competitively conduct our business. We rely on our patented technology, both domestically and internationally, to deliver our equipment and services. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements, and protective contractual provisions. Despite these efforts, our patents and intellectual property relating to our business may not provide us with any competitive advantages. Additionally, another party may obtain a blocking patent and we would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent in order to continue to offer the contested item in our products and services. Further, effective protection of intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights would have an adverse impact on our ability to competitively manufacture, distribute and use our products on a worldwide basis. We could become involved in intellectual property disputes that create a drain on our resources and could ultimately impair our assets. We do not knowingly infringe on patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights owned by other parties; however, in the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to defend a claim, develop a non-infringing alternative or to obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing an alternative or obtaining licenses on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation, even if without merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since we have a somewhat limited operating history, it is difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. We began research and development operations in the mid-1990s and have completed 12 projects to date. Our somewhat limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business or prospective operations. Since our formation, we have generated only limited and sporadic revenues. As an early stage company, we are subject to all the risks inherent in the initial organization, financing, expenditures, complications and delays inherent in a new business. Accordingly, our business and success faces risks from uncertainties faced by developing companies in a competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that we will ultimately be able to attain profitability. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of Michael Hodges, our Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer. The loss of Mr. Hodges and the inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. We seek to compensate and motivate our executives, as well as other personnel, through competitive salaries and bonus and equity incentive plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to attract or retain personnel. If Mr. Hodges were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Hodges. 5 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our anticipated international business. We expect to establish, and to expand over time, international commercial or licensing operations and activities in various countries. These international business operations will be subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally. We do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have on our international business in the future, including the following: • changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs; • economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures or customers; • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; • the imposition of restrictive trade policies; • the existence of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; • fluctuations in foreign currency and exchange rates; and • compliance with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We may need additional financing to execute our business plan and fund operations, which additional financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We have limited funds. Even with the aggregate proceeds of $6,150,000 from the recent private placement (the “Private Placement”), we may not be able to execute our current business plan and fund business operations long enough to achieve profitability. Our ultimate success may depend upon our ability to raise additional capital. There can be no assurance that additional funds will be available when needed from any source or, if available, will be available on terms that are acceptable to us. We may be required to pursue sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financing. Future financing through equity investments is likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors than our current investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuance of incentive awards under employee equity incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by factors, including the condition of the economy and capital markets, both generally and specifically in our industry, and the fact that we are not profitable, which could impact the availability or cost of future financing. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, even to the extent that we reduce our operations accordingly, we may be required to cease operations. We may be subject to fines for the non-payment of payroll taxes in prior quarters and, if we are unable to repay the amounts owed, some of our assets could be taken away. We may be subject to both federal and state fines for the non-payment of payroll taxes, penalties and interest for certain quarters in 2007 through 2009. We have agreed with Michael Hodges to set aside in escrow 1,300,000 shares of our common stock, that were to be delivered to him as consideration in the Merger, to cover these and other potential liabilities, but this may not be sufficient to cover, and we may not otherwise have sufficient funds or be able to obtain sufficient funds to repay, these liabilities. If we are unable to repay the amounts owed, the Internal Revenue Service and various state taxing agencies may levy liens against our assets and acquire ownership of our assets. The enforcement of a lien could have a material adverse affect on our business. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service can seek reimbursement from our officers and directors that have or have had a direct relationship over our cash resources and/or signature authority on checks. 6 Table of Contents Our independent auditors have expressed doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In their report dated April 14, 2010, our current independent registered public accounting firm stated that our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. In their report dated November 11, 2009, our former independent registered public accounting firm stated that our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern, and that they have doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors’ doubts are based on our recurring losses, accumulated deficits and negative cash flows from operations. We continue to experience net operating losses and negative cash flows from operating activities. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to our ability to generate profits and/or obtain necessary funding from outside sources, including by the sale of our securities, or obtaining loans from lenders, where possible. Our continued net operating losses and our auditors’ doubts increase the difficulty of our meeting these goals, and our efforts to continue as a going concern may not prove successful. We depend on our ability to continue to obtain government dredging contracts, and are therefore greatly impacted by the amount of government funding for dredging projects. A reduction in this funding could materially limit future revenues and profits. We expect that a material portion of our revenues will be derived from government dredging contracts. Therefore, if there is a reduction in government funding for dredging contracts, it could limit future revenues and profits. Our business is subject to significant operating risks and hazards that could result in damage or destruction to persons or property, which could result in losses or liabilities to us. The dredging business is generally subject to a number of risks and hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, encountering unusual or unexpected geological formations, cave-ins below water levels, collisions, disruption of transportation services and flooding. These risks could result in damage to, or destruction of, dredges, transportation vessels and other maritime structures and buildings, and could also result in personal injury, environmental damage, performance delays, monetary losses or legal liability to third parties. Although we have general liability and equipment insurance, if our insurance policies do not cover all of the potential different risks and/or liability amounts, the resulting liabilities could be costly to us. Adverse weather may cause us to incur additional costs and decreased profit margins. Our ability to perform a contract may depend on weather conditions. Inclement weather can delay the completion of a project, thereby causing us to incur additional costs. As part of bidding on fixed-price contracts, we make allowances, consistent with historic weather data, for project downtime due to adverse weather conditions. In the event that we experience adverse weather beyond these allowances, we may incur additional costs and decreased profit margins on these projects. Seasonality makes it harder for us to manage our business and for investors to evaluate our performance. Our operations may be affected by seasonal fluctuations due to weather and budgetary cycles influencing the timing of customers’ spending for remediation activities. Typically, during the first quarter of each calendar year there is less demand for our services due to weather related reasons, particularly in the northern and mid-western United States and Canada, and an increased possibility of unplanned weather related stoppages. This seasonality in our business makes it harder for us to manage our business and for investors to evaluate our performance. Environmental regulations could force us to incur significant capital and operational costs. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to, among other things, dredging operations; the disposal of dredged material; protection of wetlands; storm water and waste water discharges; and, transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and materials. We are also subject to laws designed to protect certain marine species and habitats. Compliance with these statutes and regulations can delay performance of particular projects and increase related project costs. These delays and increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our projects may involve transportation and disposal of hazardous substances and materials. Various laws strictly regulate the removal and transportation of hazardous substances and materials, and impose liability for human health effects and environmental contamination caused by these materials. Services rendered in connection with hazardous substance and material removal may involve professional judgments by licensed experts about the nature of soil conditions and other physical conditions, including the extent to which hazardous substances and materials are present, and about the probable effect of procedures to mitigate or otherwise affect those conditions. If these judgments and the recommendations based upon these judgments are incorrect, we may be liable for resulting damages that we or our customers incur, which may be material. The failure of certain contractual protections, including any indemnification from our customers or subcontractors, to protect us from incurring this liability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 7 Table of Contents Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. The stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during the third and fourth quarter of 2008 and is continuing. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a global recession. Domestic and international equity markets have been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. Risks Relating to Our Organization and Our Common Stock We may be unable to register for resale all of the shares of common stock and shares of common stock underlying the warrants included within the units sold in the Private Placement, in which case purchasers in the Private Placement will need to rely on an exemption from registration requirements in order to sell their shares. In connection with the Private Placement, we entered into a registration rights agreement, pursuant to which we are obligated to file a “resale” registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) that covers all of the common stock and shares of common stock underlying the warrants included within the units sold in the Private Placement (the “Warrant Shares”) and to have the “resale” registration statement declared effective by the SEC no later than 180 days after the final closing of the Private Placement. Nevertheless, it is possible that the SEC may not permit us to register all of the shares of common stock for resale. In certain circumstances, the SEC may take the view that the Private Placement requires us to register the resale of the securities as a primary offering. It is possible that, if registration is barred by current or future rules and regulations, rescission of the Private Placement could be sought by investors or an offer of rescission may be mandated by the SEC, which would result in a material adverse effect on us. In addition, our shares of public float are limited and are held by persons who acquired those shares under an effective registration filed prior to the Merger. Investors should be aware of the existence of risks that interpretive positions taken with respect to Rule 415, or similar rules or regulations including those that may be adopted subsequent to the date of this prospectus, could impede the manner in which the common stock and Warrant Shares may be registered or our ability to register the common stock or Warrant Shares for resale at all, or the trading in our securities. If we are unable to register some or all of the common stock or Warrant Shares, or if shares previously registered are not deemed to be freely tradeable, these shares would only be able to be sold pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, such as Rule 144, that currently permits the resale of securities by holders who are not affiliated with the issuer following twelve months from November 16, 2009. As a result of the Merger, Genesis Fluid Solutions became a subsidiary of ours and, we are subject to the reporting requirements of federal securities laws. Such reporting requirements can be expensive and may divert resources from other projects, thus impairing our ability to grow. As a result of the Merger, Genesis Fluid Solutions became a subsidiary of ours and, accordingly, is subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and other federal securities laws, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC (including reporting of the Merger) and furnishing audited reports to stockholders will cause our expenses to be higher than they would have been if Genesis Fluid Solutions had remained privately held and did not consummate the Merger. In addition, we will incur substantial expenses in connection with the preparation of the registration statement and related documents required under the terms of the Private Placement that require us to register the shares of common stock included in the units and the Warrant Shares. It may be time consuming, difficult and costly for us to develop and implement the internal controls and reporting procedures required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We will need to hire additional financial reporting, internal controls and other finance personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. If we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, then we may not be able to obtain the independent accountant certifications required by that act, which may preclude us from keeping our filings with the SEC current, and interfere with the ability of investors to trade our securities and our shares to continue to be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board or our ability to list our shares on any national securities exchange. 8 Table of Contents If we fail to establish and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our reputation and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. As a result, our small size and any current internal control deficiencies may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and access to capital. We have not performed an in-depth analysis to determine if historical undiscovered failures of internal controls exist, and may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Public company compliance may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. As a public company, we expect these rules and regulations to increase our compliance costs in 2010 and beyond and to make certain activities more time consuming and costly. As a public company, we also expect that these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, and to maintain insurance at reasonable rates, or at all. Because we became public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with us becoming public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any offerings on behalf of our post-Merger company. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • changes in our industry; • competitive pricing pressures; • our ability to obtain working capital financing; • additions or departures of key personnel; • limited “public float” following the Merger, in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; • sales of our common stock (particularly following effectiveness of the resale registration statement required to be filed in connection with the Private Placement); • our ability to execute our business plan; • operating results that fall below expectations; • loss of any strategic relationship; • regulatory developments; • economic and other external factors; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • our inability to develop or acquire new or needed technology. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 9 Table of Contents We have not paid dividends in the past and do not expect to pay dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at the time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price increases. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, the price may not reflect our value, and there can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Our shares of common stock are very thinly traded, only a small percentage of our common stock is available to be traded and is held by a small number of holders, and the price, if traded, may not reflect our actual or perceived value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. The market liquidity will be dependent on the perception of our operating business, among other things. We will take certain steps including utilizing investor awareness campaigns, press releases, road shows and conferences to increase awareness of our business, and any steps that we might take to bring us to the awareness of investors may require we compensate consultants with cash and/or stock. There can be no assurance that there will be any awareness generated or the results of any efforts will result in any impact on our trading volume. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business, and trading may be at an inflated price relative to the performance of the Company due to, among other things, availability of sellers of our shares. If a market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there may be a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms or clearing firms may not be willing to effect transactions in the securities or accept our shares for deposit in an account. Even if an investor finds a broker willing to effect a transaction in the shares of our common stock, the combination of brokerage commissions, transfer fees, taxes, if any, and any other selling costs may exceed the selling price. Further, many lending institutions will not permit the use of low priced shares of common stock as collateral for any loans. A significant number of shares have been issued to our counsel and others as payment for services. In the aggregate, 1,160,000 shares of freely trading stock were available for trading immediately following closing of the Merger. Our counsel serves as escrow agent under the Escrow Agreement, under which 1,300,000 shares may be registered for resale. Those shares, in addition to other shares issued to our counsel, may from time to time be sold in open market transactions, or in privately negotiated transactions. In the event we are required to pay any liability or claim under the Escrow Agreement, the escrow agent will have discretion in determining the timing and manner of those sales, as well as the timing and manner of sale of other shares issued to our counsel for services. There is currently a very limited trading market for our common stock and we cannot ensure that one will ever develop or be sustained. To date there has been a very limited trading market for our common stock. We cannot predict how liquid the market for our common stock might become. We anticipate having our common stock continue to be quoted for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, however, we cannot be sure that these quotations will continue. As soon as is practicable, we anticipate applying for listing of our common stock on the NYSE Amex, The NASDAQ Capital Market or another national securities exchange, assuming that we can satisfy the initial listing standards of the exchange. We currently do not satisfy the initial listing standards, and cannot ensure that we will be able to satisfy the listing standards or that our common stock will be accepted for listing on any exchange. Should we fail to satisfy the initial listing standards of an exchange, or our common stock is otherwise rejected for listing and remains listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or suspended from the OTC Bulletin Board, the trading price of our common stock could suffer and the trading market for our common stock may be less liquid and our common stock price may be subject to increased volatility. Furthermore, for companies whose securities are traded in the OTC Bulletin Board, it is more difficult (1) to obtain accurate quotations, (2) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about these companies, and (3) to obtain needed capital. We are not required to register for sale the warrants, and do not intend to register the warrants for resale by the holders. As a result, the only value in the warrants will be in the “spread” between the trading price of our common stock and the exercise price of the warrants. Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market or another national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenues of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in these securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. 10 Table of Contents Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issued in the Private Placement upon the effectiveness of the registration statement required to be filed, upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, upon expiration of lock-up periods applicable to outstanding shares, or shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and, in anticipation of which, the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. The shares of common stock issued in the Merger to the current and former officers and directors of Genesis Fluid Solutions are subject to a lock-up agreement prohibiting sales of these shares for a period of 12 months following the Merger. Following that date, all of those shares will become freely tradable, subject to securities laws and SEC regulations regarding sales by insiders. In addition, the shares of common stock sold in the Private Placement and the Warrant Shares will be freely tradable upon the earlier of (i) effectiveness of a registration statement covering these shares; and, (ii) the date on which these shares may be sold without registration pursuant to Rule 144 (or other applicable exemption) under the Securities Act. We may apply the proceeds of the Private Placement to uses that ultimately do not improve our operating results or increase the value of your investment. We intend to use a portion of the net proceeds from the Private Placement, including proceeds received upon the exercise of the warrants, for general working capital purposes. Therefore, our management will have broad discretion in how we use these proceeds. These proceeds could be applied in ways that do not ultimately improve our operating results or otherwise increase the value of the investment in our common stock or warrants. Because our directors and executive officers are among our largest stockholders, they can exert significant control over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from those of our other stockholders. Our directors and executive officers own or control a significant percentage of the common stock following the Merger and completion of the Private Placement. Additionally, the holdings of our directors and executive officers may increase in the future upon vesting or other maturation of exercise rights under any of the options or warrants they may hold or in the future be granted or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our common stock. Following the Merger, our executive officers and directors, in the aggregate, beneficially own 5,729,920 shares of our common stock, which represents approximately 32.6% of the voting power of all of our outstanding shares of stock. Our President, Michael Hodges, beneficially owns 2,833,800 shares of our common stock (including the right to vote 1.3 million shares held in escrow pursuant to the escrow agreement, which he has the right to re-acquire), and will be able to vote an additional 1,231,120 shares under voting agreements with the beneficial owners of the shares, until the beneficial owners no longer own such shares, or a total of approximately 28.3% of the voting power of all our outstanding shares of stock. Our Senior Vice President of Field Operations, Larry Campbell, beneficially owns 600,000 shares of our common stock (consisting of 600,000 shares of our common stock issuable upon exercise of currently exercisable options). Mary Losty, a director of ours, beneficially owns 1,030,000 shares of our common stock (including 20,000 shares of our common stock purchased in the Private Placement and 10,000 shares of our common stock underlying warrants issued in the Private Placement. John Freshman, a director of ours, beneficially owns 35,000 shares of our common stock. As a result, in addition to their board seats and offices, such persons will have significant influence over and control all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how the Company’s other stockholders, including purchasers in the Private Placement, may vote, including the following actions: • to elect or defeat the election of our directors; • to amend or prevent amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws; • to effect or prevent a merger, sale of assets or other corporate transaction; and • to control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for vote. In addition, these persons’ stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 11 Table of Contents Exercise of options and warrants may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise of any warrants, options, or any other convertible securities is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of these convertible securities, exercise or conversion of these convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of April 15, 2010, we had (i) outstanding warrants to purchase 3,412,500 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share, (ii) outstanding placement agent warrants to purchase 107,500 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.25 per share, (iii) outstanding options to purchase 770,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.99 per share, (iv) outstanding options to purchase 1,852,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.90 per share, and (v) outstanding options to purchase 600,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $1.00 per share. Further, any additional financing that we secure may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and which result in additional dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation allows for our board of directors to create new series of preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders, which could adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of series of preferred stock that have greater voting power than our common stock or that are convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 