ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In evaluating the Company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The current economic uncertainty in domestic and global markets and the volatility and disruption of the credit markets may continue to negatively impact us. The domestic and international economies experienced a significant recession in 2009 and into 2010, which included an increase in credit restrictions in the global financial markets. While near-term market conditions in fiscal 2010 have shown some limited improvement, it is not clear that this improvement will continue. Management is uncertain as to the depth or length of time that the global recession and global credit restrictions will have an effect on the markets that we serve and the ability of financial institutions to provide credit. Our customers are dependent on the financial institutions to provide liquidity for capital programs and operating capital. We expect our revenues, earnings and liquidity to be impacted to the extent that global credit restrictions impact the markets we serve. Changes in the price, supply or demand for natural gas could have an adverse impact on sales of our separation and filtration systems and products and our operating results. A large portion of our Process Product business is driven by the construction of natural gas infrastructure. Increased demand for natural gas may result in the construction of additional infrastructure. Higher prices of natural gas, while beneficial to exploration activities and the financing of new projects, can adversely impact the demand for natural gas. Excess supply could also negatively impact the price of natural gas, which could discourage spending on related capital projects. Changes in the power generation industry could have an adverse impact on sales of our environmental control systems and products and our operating results. The demand for our environmental control systems and products depends in part on the continued construction of new power generation and related facilities and the retrofitting of existing facilities. The power generation industry is cyclical and has experienced periods of slow or no growth in the past. Any change in the power generation industry that results in a decrease in new construction or refurbishing of power plants, in particular natural gas facilities, could have a material adverse impact on our environmental systems segment’s revenues and our results of operations. Changes in current environmental legislation could have an adverse impact on the sale of our environmental control systems and products and on our operating results. Our environmental systems business is primarily driven by capital spending by our customers to comply with laws and regulations governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment or human health. These laws include U.S. federal statutes such as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (“CERCLA”), the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule (“CAIR”) and the regulations implementing these statutes, as well as similar laws and regulations at state and local levels and in other countries. These U.S. laws and regulations may change and other countries may not adopt similar laws and regulations. In July 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia vacated the CAIR in its entirety and instructed the Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) to issue a new rule. On July 6, 2010, the EPA proposed the Transport Rule, which would replace CAIR and require emissions reductions beyond those originally required by CAIR through additional air pollution reductions from power plants beginning in 2012. The proposed Transport Rule is currently out for comment and the final ruling is expected in the spring of 2011. The interplay between the judicial system and the EPA instills uncertainty and our business may be adversely impacted by this court ruling and may also be adversely impacted to the extent that other regulations requiring the reduction of NOx emissions are repealed, amended, implementation dates delayed, or to the extent that regulatory authorities reduce enforcement. 15 Table of Contents The CEFCO manufacturing license agreement and contemplated testing and development of the CEFCO Process may not be successful and in such event, we would incur the loss of the initial payment and testing costs with no return. Under the CEFCO manufacturing license agreement, we made an initial payment of $1,100 and are obligated to pay installment and royalty payments if certain conditions are met. We will also conduct testing of the CEFCO technology in fiscal year 2011 and fund the costs and expense for such testing. The occurrence of these events is uncertain and there can be no assurances as to the successful testing of the CEFCO technology, our ability to develop a commercially viable product, and our ability to receive manufacturing orders under the CEFCO license agreement. Our costs incurred may not result in returns. The conversion and redemption features of our Series A Convertible Redeemable Preferred Stock are classified as an embedded derivative and as such, has resulted and will continue to result in volatility in our financial statements, including having a material impact on our net income and the derivative liability recorded, due to the fair value accounting requirement to mark-to-market the derivative feature at each reporting period. The conversion rights and redemption options of our Preferred Stock are classified as an embedded derivative and as a result, marked-to-market to reflect fair value at each reporting period. The fair value of the embedded derivative is influenced by a variety of factors, including the actual and anticipated behavior of the holders of the preferred stock, the expected volatility of our common stock price and our common stock price as of the fair value measurement date. Some of these factors are outside of our control. As a result, changes in these factors may have a material impact on our net income and the derivative liability recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Consequently, our financial statements may vary periodically, based on factors other than the Company’s revenues and expenses. Our debt service obligations could have a negative impact on our business. As of June 30, 2010, we had $20,221 of outstanding indebtedness, under our senior secured term loan. We also have a revolving credit facility available for working capital needs. At June 30, 2010, there was $9,706 of letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit facility, utilizing all of our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility. Among other things, our indebtedness and debt service obligations: • Limit the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • Limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes; • Limit our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • Limit our ability to pay cash dividends; • Limit our ability to dispose of subsidiaries and other assets; and • Make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, increased competition and adverse industry conditions, which places us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to pay principal and interest on our long term debt and to satisfy our other liabilities will depend upon our future performance and our ability to refinance our debt as it becomes due. Our future operating performance and ability to refinance will be affected by economic and capital markets conditions, our financial condition, results of operations and prospects and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to service our indebtedness and fund our operating costs, we will be forced to adopt alternative strategies that may include: • Further reducing or delaying capital expenditures; • Seeking additional debt financing or equity capital; • Selling assets; or • Restructuring or refinancing debt. There can be no assurance that any of these strategies could be implemented on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our revolving credit facility matures during fiscal 2011. Our revolving credit facility matures on April 30, 2011. This facility provides us with borrowing flexibility and facilitates the issuance of letters of credit. We are engaged in negotiations with our primary lender, however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renew the credit facility on terms similar to the existing facility, satisfactory to us, or at all. If we are unable to renew the existing credit facility or secure alternate sources of capital upon favorable terms, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Restrictions in our debt agreement limit our operating and strategic flexibility. Prior to entering into the debt agreements to finance the Nitram acquisition, we had substantial cash balances and no long-term debt. Our current debt agreement contains covenants and events of default that, among other things, require us to satisfy financial tests and maintain financial ratios, including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, a maximum leverage ratio and a minimum net worth requirement. On September 9, 2009, in recognition of the weak global business environment, we amended our senior secured term loan agreement to adjust certain of the financial covenant requirements. Among other things, these covenants and events of default limit our ability to, or do not permit us to: • incur additional debt; • create or permit to exist certain liens; • pay dividends on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • engage in specified asset sales, including capital stock of subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in mergers and acquisitions; and • make capital expenditures. 17 Table of Contents Events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants, including the required financial ratios. Failure to comply with any of these debt covenants would result in a default under our debt agreement. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under this agreement, foreclose upon our assets securing the debt and terminate any commitments to lend. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by the debt agreement on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions may significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing and may prevent us from taking advantage of attractive business opportunities. The holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends and liquidation payments in preference to the holders of our common stock. Dividends accrue on shares of our Preferred Stock at an annual rate of 6% and are payable quarterly. All dividends may be paid, at our option, in cash or shares of common stock, or a combination of the two. The dividend rate will increase to 8% in the event we fail to comply with our obligations under the preferred stock agreement. In the event dividends are paid or set aside on any shares of common stock (other than dividends payable in shares of common stock), we must also pay an additional dividend on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock in a per share amount equal (on an as-converted to common stock basis) to the amount paid or set aside for each share of common stock. Upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company or a change of control of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of our Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a liquidation payment prior to the payment of any amount with respect to shares of our common stock. The amount of this preferential liquidation payment per share of the Preferred Stock is the sum of (i) the greater of (A) the initial price per share of our Preferred Stock ($1,000), as adjusted for any applicable stock dividends, splits, combinations and similar events and (B) an amount equal to the per share amount the holders of Preferred Stock would have received upon a liquidation had such holders converted their shares of Preferred Stock into shares of common stock immediately prior thereto, plus (ii) an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends. Because of the substantial liquidation preference to which the holders of shares of the Preferred Stock are entitled, the amount available to be distributed to the holders of shares of our common stock upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company could be substantially limited or reduced to zero and may make it more difficult to raise capital or recruit and retain key personnel in the future. We may not be able to fund future redemptions of the Preferred Stock from available cash resources. On or after September 4, 2014, the holders of any then-outstanding shares of our Preferred Stock may require us to redeem all or any portion of their shares of Preferred Stock. The redemption price per share is equal to the sum of (i) the greater of (A) the initial price per share of our Preferred Stock ($1,000), as adjusted for any applicable stock dividends, splits, combinations and similar events and (B) an amount equal to the amount the holders of Preferred Stock would have received per share of Preferred Stock upon a liquidation had such holders converted their shares of Preferred Stock into shares of common stock immediately prior thereto, plus (ii) an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends. Depending on our cash resources at the time this redemption right is exercised, we may or may not be able to fund the redemption from our available cash resources. If we were unable to fund the redemption from available cash resources we would need to find an alternative source of financing to do so. There can be no assurances that we would be able to raise such funds on favorable terms or at all. 18 Table of Contents The holders of shares of our Preferred Stock have the right to participate in subsequent equity offerings. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, the holders of all Preferred Stock have the right to participate in any offering by us of our equity securities, or securities convertible into or exchangeable for our equity securities, subject to certain exceptions, including any public offering of common stock. This preemptive right allows the holders of our Preferred Stock to maintain their proportional ownership in our stock. The preemptive right will exist as long as at least $5,000 of the Preferred Stock remains outstanding. The existence of this pre-emptive right may make it more difficult for us to obtain financing from third parties that do not wish to have holders of our Preferred Stock participating in their financing. The conversion of our Preferred Stock, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Each share of Preferred Stock is convertible into the number of shares of our common stock equal to the initial purchase price of the shares of Preferred Stock divided by the then applicable conversion price. The initial conversion price is $8.00 per share. Upon conversion, we must pay any accrued but unpaid dividends. A holder of Preferred Stock may elect to convert at any time. In addition, after September 4, 2011, we have the right to force conversion of any then-outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, upon certain conditions being met. Public sales of the shares of common stock acquired upon conversion of the Preferred Stock or exercise of the warrants attached to the Preferred Stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock financings. Our ability to operate effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our businesses and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees, including engineers. We do not have employment contracts or non-compete agreements, with all of our executive officers. Currently, we have employment agreements with only Peter J. Burlage, Warren R. Hayslip and Melissa Beare. The loss of the services of one or more executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business or business prospects. In addition, we do not maintain key-person insurance on the lives of any of our executive officers or other employees and the loss of any one of them could disrupt our business. Our industry has experienced shortages in the availability of skilled workers. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations require the services of employees having technical training and related experience, including certified welders. As a result, our operations depend on the continuing availability of qualified employees. Our industry has experienced shortages of workers with the necessary skills. If we should suffer any material loss of these employees to competitors, or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid to these workers by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. 19 Table of Contents Competition could result in lower sales, decreased margins and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets worldwide and contracts for our systems and products are generally awarded on a competitive basis. We face competition from potential new competitors that in some cases face low barriers to entry, specialized competitors that focus on competing with only one of our systems or products and low cost competitors that are able to produce similar systems and products for less. Competition could result in not only a reduction in our sales, but also may lower the prices we can charge for our systems and products and reduce our market share. To remain competitive we must be able to anticipate and respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance and upgrade our existing systems and products to meet those needs. We must also be able to price our systems and products competitively and make timely delivery of our systems and products. Our competitors may develop less expensive or more efficient systems and products, may be willing to charge lower prices in order to increase market share and may be better equipped to make deliveries to customers on a more timely basis. Some of our competitors have more capital and resources than we do and may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. In addition, despite increased market demand, we may not be able to realize higher prices for our systems and products because we have competitors that use cost-plus pricing and do not set prices in accordance with market demand. If actual costs for our projects with fixed-price contracts exceed our original estimates, or if we are required to pay liquidated damages due to late delivery, our profits will be reduced or we may suffer losses. The majority of our contracts are fixed-price contracts from which we have limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long-term nature of our contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including: • increases in cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; • errors in estimates or bidding; • unanticipated technical problems; • variations in productivity; • required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. In addition to increasing costs, these factors could lead to “hold backs” by our customers impacting our cash flow negatively and could also delay delivery of our products. Our contracts often provide for liquidated damages in the case of late delivery. Unanticipated costs, such as liquidated damages that we are required to pay in the case of late delivery, could negatively impact our profits. Increasing costs for manufactured components and raw materials, such as steel, may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, primarily raw steel and steel-related components. The costs for many of these components and materials have increased. Future increases in the price of these items could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profit margins. 20 Table of Contents The inability of our engineering or manufacturing operations to meet customer demand for new orders with short delivery times may require us to outsource additional aspects of our business, resulting in increased variable costs incurred by us that are not included in our manufacturing overhead. Our engineering and manufacturing operations require a highly skilled workforce for which there is increasing demand and short supply in a very competitive environment. Consequently, increased demand to produce product orders that require tight delivery and short order cycle times may require us to outsource the engineering or manufacturing of these orders. The additional expense incurred to outsource these functions is a variable cost that is not part of our manufacturing overhead and the incurrence of this variable cost could negatively affect our profit margins. Our use of subcontractors could harm our profitability and business reputation. We employ subcontractors at various locations around the world to meet our customers’ needs in a timely manner, meet local content requirements and reduce costs. Subcontractors generally perform the majority of our manufacturing for international customers. We also utilize subcontractors in North America, primarily to add additional non-proprietary manufacturing capacity. The use of subcontractors decreases our control over the performance of these functions and could result in project delays, escalated costs and substandard quality. These risks could adversely affect our profitability and business reputation. In addition, many of our competitors, who have greater financial resources and greater bargaining power than we have, use the same subcontractors that we use and could potentially influence our ability to hire these subcontractors. If we were to lose relationships with key subcontractors, our business could be adversely impacted. Customers may cancel or delay projects. Our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Our orders generally contain cancellation provisions which permit us to recover our costs in the event a customer cancels an order. If a customer cancels an order, we may not realize the full amount of revenues included in our backlog. If projects are delayed, the timing of our revenues could be affected and projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over long periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. If we receive relatively large orders in any given quarter, fluctuations in the levels of our quarterly backlog can result because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues. Our ability to conduct business outside the United States may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control and our revenues and profits from international sales could be adversely impacted. Since we manufacture and sell our products and services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenues generated outside the United States represented 35.1%, 33.8% and 36.8% of our consolidated revenues during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our operations and earnings throughout the world have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degrees by a number of factors, including changes in foreign laws and regulations, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, customs and tariffs, government sanctions, inability to obtain export licenses unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable, difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates. The likelihood of the occurrence and the overall effect on our business vary from country to country and are not predictable. These factors may result in a decline in revenues or profitability or could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States and may impact our ability to deliver our products and collect our receivables. 21 Table of Contents Our financial performance may vary significantly from period to period, making it difficult to estimate future revenues. Our revenues and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our contracts generally stipulate customer-specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects these contracts to many factors beyond our control. In addition, contracts that are significantly larger in size than our typical contracts tend to have a greater impact on our operating results. Furthermore, as a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated decrease in our revenues, a delay or cancellation of orders in backlog, or a decrease in the demand for our products, may have a significant impact on our operating results. Therefore, our operating results may be subject to significant variations and our operating performance in any period may not be indicative of our future performance. Our use of the percentage-of-completion method of accounting for contract revenues may result in material adjustments that would adversely affect our operating results. Substantially all of our revenues are recognized using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, estimated contract revenues are accrued based generally on the percentage of costs incurred to date compared to total estimated costs. Estimates are based on management’s reasonable assumptions and our historical experience. Estimated contract losses are recognized in full when determined. Accordingly, we periodically review and revise these estimates, with adjustments to revenues reflected in the period when the revisions are made. Adjustments to revenues resulting from revisions to estimates and variations of actual results from estimates could materially affect our operating results. Changes in our product mix can have a significant impact on our profit margins. Some of our products have higher profit margins than others. Consequently, changes in the product mix of our sales from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported profit margins. Some of our products also have a much higher internally manufactured cost component. Therefore, changes from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported margins through a change in our manufacturing costs and specifically in our manufacturing costs as a percentage of sales. Our systems and products are covered by warranties. Unanticipated warranty costs for defective systems and products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation. In addition, an increase in the number of systems we sell, compared to individual products that our customers use as components in other systems, may increase our warranty costs. We offer warranty periods of various lengths to our customers depending upon the specific system or product and terms of the customer agreement. Among other things, warranties require us to repair or replace faulty systems or products. While we continually monitor our warranty claims and provide a reserve for estimated warranty issues on an on-going basis, an unanticipated claim could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we may be able to recover a portion of our warranty cost from a subcontractor if the subcontractor supplied the defective product or performed the service. However, this recovery may not always be possible. The need to repair or replace systems and products with design or manufacturing defects could temporarily delay the sale of new systems and products, reduce our profits, cause us to suffer a loss and could adversely affect our reputation. Furthermore, average warranty costs for complete systems are higher than warranty costs for individual products that our customers use as components in other systems due to complete systems being more complex. As a result, our transition to offering more complete systems may increase our warranty costs. 22 Table of Contents Our systems and products could be subject to product liability claims and litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and harm our business reputation. We manufacture systems and products that create exposure to product liability claims, breach of contract claims, and litigation. If our systems and products are not properly manufactured or designed, personal injuries or property damage could result, which could subject us to claims for damages. The costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. Our reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful, and such claims could lead to decreased demand for our systems and products. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient to cover such claims. We may be subject to breach of contract claims or product liability claims for personal injury and property damage. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business. However, this insurance may not protect us against liability from some kinds of events, including events involving losses resulting from business interruption. We cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our systems and products that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our accounts receivable are related to large contracts from customers in the same markets, which increases our exposure to credit risk. We monitor the credit worthiness of our customers. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom systems and products and whose activities are related to the power generation, natural gas infrastructure and refining and petrochemical processing markets. As a result, our exposure to credit risk is affected to some degree by conditions within these markets and governmental and political conditions. We attempt to reduce our exposure to credit risk by requiring progress payments and letters of credit. However, unanticipated events that affect our customers could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. Changes in billing terms can increase our exposure to working capital and credit risk. We generally sell our systems and products under contracts that allow us to either bill upon the completion of certain agreed upon milestones, or upon actual shipment of the system or product. We attempt to negotiate progress-billing milestones on large contracts to help us manage working capital and to reduce the credit risk associated with these large contracts. Consequently, shifts in the billing terms of the contracts in our backlog from period to period can increase our requirement for working capital and can increase our exposure to credit risk. Our customers may require us to perform portions of our projects in their local countries. Some foreign countries have regulations requiring, and some customers in foreign countries prefer, a certain degree of local content be included in projects destined for installation in their country. These requirements and preferences may require us to outsource significant functions to manufacturers in foreign countries or otherwise to establish manufacturing capabilities in foreign countries. These requirements may negatively impact our profit margins and present project management issues. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to United States and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our international operations, including export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. Implementing compliance with the requirements of any new or amended U.S. or foreign laws and regulations as well as failure to comply with any laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our strategic objectives. As a result of our global operations, we face a variety of special U.S. and international legal and compliance risks, in addition to the risks of our domestic business. These federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws, anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, as well as trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. In the event new laws and regulations are enacted or existing laws are amended, implementing compliance with such new or amended laws may result in a loss of revenues, increased costs of doing business and a change to our strategic objectives, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of any of these laws. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. In April 2008, Burgess-Manning, Inc., a subsidiary of Nitram, made a voluntary disclosure to OFAC regarding sales of industrial separators to Iran. In connection with the Nitram acquisition, we are entitled to reimbursement from the Nitram selling stockholders for potential costs, fines or penalties related to the OFAC voluntary disclosure. As of August 29, 2010, we have not received any response from OFAC. We cannot predict the nature and timing of the response of OFAC, the outcome of any related proceeding, the likelihood that future proceedings will be instituted against us. In the event that there is an adverse ruling in any proceeding, we may be required to pay fines and penalties that could harm our business and financial results. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis. Aside from our acquisition of Nitram, we have limited experience with acquisitions. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not even be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than we do. Borrowings necessary to finance acquisitions may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Future acquisitions may also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. Acquisitions may expose us to particular business and financial risks that include, but are not limited to: • diverting management’s attention; • incurring additional indebtedness and assuming liabilities, known and unknown; • incurring significant additional capital expenditures, transaction and operating expenses and non-recurring acquisition-related charges; • the adverse impact on our earnings of the amortization of identifiable intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions; • the adverse impact on our earnings of impairment charges related to goodwill recorded as a result of acquisitions, should we ever make such a determination that the goodwill or other intangibles related to any of our acquisitions was impaired; • failing to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; • assimilating the operations of the acquired businesses, including differing technology, business systems and corporate cultures; • failing to achieve operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from the acquisitions; • entering new markets with which we are not familiar; and • inability to retain key personnel, vendors and customers of the acquired businesses. 24 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary business. Our ability to obtain financing for future growth opportunities may be limited. Our ability to execute our growth strategies may be limited by our ability to secure and retain additional financing at terms reasonably acceptable to us or at all. Some of our competitors are larger companies that may have better access to capital and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us should our access to capital be limited. There is a concentration of ownership in our stockholders. Brown Advisory Holdings, Inc. (“BAHI”) has reported that it beneficially owns more than 50% of our stock. While BAHI has disclaimed any voting powers over the stock it holds, it does hold dispositive powers. If BAHI sells substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could decrease. In addition, this concentration in ownership could have an adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock. This ownership position may make it more difficult for us to sell equity and equity-related securities in the future. Provisions of our charter documents, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan could discourage a takeover that individual stockholders may consider favorable or the removal of our current directors and management. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that individual stockholders may consider favorable or the removal of our current management. These provisions: • provide for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; • prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; • limit the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. In addition, purchase rights distributed under our stockholder rights plan will cause substantial dilution to any person or group attempting to acquire us without conditioning the offer on our redemption of the rights. As a result, our stock price may decrease and stockholders might not receive a change of control premium over the then-current market price of the common stock. The Company’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a “blank check” preferred stock provision. Blank check preferred stock enables the Company’s board of directors, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series and classes of preferred stock with such dividend rights, liquidation preferences, conversion rights, terms of redemption, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitation on conversion, as the Company’s board of directors may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire or merge with us which could also adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. 25 Table of Contents Certain provisions of the terms of our Preferred Stock, taken together with the potential voting power of the warrants, may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us. Certain provisions of the documents governing our Preferred Stock may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire the Company. In particular, certain change-of-control events require us to make payments to the holders of our Preferred Stock equal to the full liquidation preference of the Preferred Stock. As a result, this could discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us, because any premium to our current common stock equity value would need to take into account the premium on our preferred stock. This means that to offer the holders of our common stock a premium, a third party would have to pay an amount significantly in excess of the current value of our common stock. Furthermore, because our warrants are exercisable for a significant percentage of our common stock, the warrant holders would have the ability to exercise significant control over whether a change of control requiring the vote of our stockholders was approved. As a result of the liquidation payment on our Preferred Stock and the potential voting influence of the warrant holders, third parties may be deterred from any proposed business combination or change-of-control transaction and stockholders who desire to participate in such a transaction in the future may not have the opportunity to do so. We are a holding company with no operations of our own. As a result, our cash flow and ability to service debt is dependent upon distributions from our subsidiaries. Our ability to service our debt is dependent upon the operating earnings of our subsidiaries. The distribution of those earnings, or advances or other distributions of funds by those subsidiaries to us, all of which could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions, are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations. Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our consolidated revenues are generated outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. Foreign currency fluctuations may also make our systems and products more expensive for our customers, which could have a negative impact on our sales. In addition, we purchase some foreign-made products directly and through our subcontractors. Due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure. We cannot assure that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our direct or indirect costs of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. 26 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully enforce our rights to indemnification against Nitram’s selling stockholders for claims relating to breach of representation and certain other claims, including litigation costs and damages. We have outstanding claims against the selling stockholders under the terms of the Nitram acquisition agreement relating to a customer warranty dispute and environmental matters. The sellers have not agreed to pay for the claims and we are currently in the process of discussing the various claims with the sellers, which could have the effect of delaying or ultimately preventing all or a portion of, our reimbursement for such claims and damages. Our ability to collect any portion of these outstanding claims is not assured. If we are unable to collect reimbursement for those claims, we may be responsible for unforeseen additional costs and expenses. Our business is subject to risks of terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. Terrorist acts, acts of war or national disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as those of our customers. These types of acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations, or natural disasters could weaken the domestic and global economies and create additional uncertainties, thus forcing our customers to reduce their capital spending, or cancel or delay already planned construction projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of August 29, 2010, we had 14,832,994 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Stock Market, for the 3 months ended September 3, 2010 was less than 35,000 shares. A more active public market for our common stock may not develop, which could adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Moreover, a thin trading market for our stock could cause the market price for our common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a larger float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, stockholders may be unable to liquidate their shares of our common stock at a satisfactory price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. During the period beginning July 1, 2010 through September 3, 2010, the sale prices of our common stock on the NASDAQ Stock Market have ranged from a low of $13.63 to a high of $18.73 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuation in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • any future issuances or sales of our common stock, including issuances upon conversion of our outstanding Preferred Stock or exercise of the attached warrants; 27 Table of Contents • general economic conditions or trends, or conditions or trends in our industry, including demand for our systems and products, technological advances and governmental regulations; • the price of natural gas; • announcements of technological advances by us or our competitors; • changes in our estimates of financial performance or changes in securities analysts’ estimates of financial performance or recommendations; • rumors or dissemination of false and/or unofficial information; • transactions in our common stock by our management; • litigation involving or affecting us and • additions to or departures of our key personnel. If any of these risks and other factors beyond our control were to occur, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 28 Table of Contents 