Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our common stock. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the net asset value of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We are a relatively new company and have limited operating history. We were formed on December 21, 2007 and commenced operations on January 2, 2009 after meeting our minimum offering requirement of selling, in aggregate, $2.5 million in common stock to persons not affiliated with us. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of our common stock could decline substantially. Economic activity in the United States was impacted by the global financial crisis of 2008 and has yet to fully recover. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, global credit and other financial markets suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached extraordinary levels in late 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy of, the acquisition of, or government intervention in the affairs of several major domestic and international financial institutions. In particular, the financial services sector was negatively impacted by significant write-offs as the value of the assets held by financial firms declined, impairing their capital positions and abilities to lend and invest. We believe that such value declines were exacerbated by widespread forced liquidations as leveraged holders of financial assets, faced with declining prices, were compelled to sell to meet margin requirements and maintain compliance with applicable capital standards. Such forced liquidations also impaired or eliminated many investors and investment vehicles, leading to a decline in the supply of capital for investment and depressed pricing levels for many assets. These events significantly diminished overall confidence in the debt and equity markets, engendered unprecedented declines in the values of certain assets, and caused extreme economic uncertainty. Economic activity continues to be somewhat subdued as unemployment rates remain high. Despite this, capital has steadily flowed into the financial markets since the nadir of the credit crisis, as general risk aversion has subsided. As a result, corporate interest rate risk premiums, otherwise known as credit spreads, declined significantly throughout most of 2009 and 2010. However, credit spreads remain above historical averages, particularly in the loan market. The improving economic and market conditions which have driven these declines in credit spreads may reverse themselves if uncertainty returns to the markets. Such a reversal could negatively impact credit spreads as well as our ability to obtain financing, particularly from the debt markets. Price declines in the large corporate leveraged loan market may adversely affect the fair value of our syndicated loan portfolio, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. Prior to the onset of the financial crisis, collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, a type of leveraged investment vehicle holding corporate loans, hedge funds and other highly leveraged investment vehicles, comprised the majority of the market for purchasing and holding senior secured and second lien secured loans. As the secondary market pricing of the loans underlying these portfolios deteriorated during the fourth quarter of 2008, it is our understanding that many investors, as a result of their generally high degrees of leverage, were forced to raise cash by selling their interests in performing loans in order to satisfy margin requirements or the equivalent of margin requirements imposed by their lenders. This resulted in a forced deleveraging cycle of price declines, compulsory sales, and further price declines, with widespread redemption requests and other constraints 26 Table of Contents resulting from the credit crisis generating further selling pressure. The pervasive forced selling and the resultant price declines led to the elimination or significant impairment of many of our leveraged competitors for investment opportunities, especially those having built their investment portfolios prior to the financial crisis. While prices appreciated measurably during 2009 and 2010, conditions in the large corporate leveraged loan market may deteriorate again, which may cause pricing levels to decline. As a result, we may suffer unrealized depreciation and could incur realized losses in connection with the sale of our syndicated loans, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on FB Advisor’s and GDFM’s ability to manage and support our investment process. If either FB Advisor or GDFM were to lose any members of their respective senior management teams, our ability to achieve our investment objectives could be significantly harmed. Since we have no employees, we depend on the investment expertise, skill and network of business contacts of FB Advisor and GDFM. FB Advisor, with the assistance of GDFM, evaluates, negotiates, structures, executes, monitors and services our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of FB Advisor and its senior management team. The departure of any members of FB Advisor’s senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Likewise, the departure of any key employees of GDFM may impact its ability to render services to us under the terms of its sub-advisory agreement with FB Advisor. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on FB Advisor’s ability, with the assistance of GDFM, to identify, analyze, invest in, finance and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. FB Advisor’s capabilities in structuring the investment process, providing competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and facilitating access to financing on acceptable terms depend on the employment of investment professionals in an adequate number and of adequate sophistication to match the corresponding flow of transactions. To achieve our investment objectives, FB Advisor may need to hire, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals to participate in our investment selection and monitoring process. FB Advisor may not be able to find investment professionals in a timely manner or at all. Failure to support our investment process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, both the investment advisory and administrative services agreement and the sub-advisory agreement that FB Advisor has entered into with GDFM have termination provisions that allow the parties to terminate the agreements without penalty. The investment advisory and administrative services agreement may be terminated at any time, without penalty, by FB Advisor, upon 120 days notice to us. The sub-advisory agreement may be terminated at any time, without the payment of any penalty, upon 60 days written notice by GDFM or, if our board of directors or the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities determine that the sub-advisory agreement with GDFM should be terminated, by FB Advisor. If either agreement is terminated, it may adversely affect the quality of our investment opportunities. In addition, in the event such agreements are terminated, it may be difficult for us to replace FB Advisor or for FB Advisor to replace GDFM. Furthermore, the termination of either of these agreements may adversely impact the terms of our credit facility. See “—Risks Related to Debt Financing.” Because our business model depends to a significant extent upon relationships with private equity sponsors, investment banks, and commercial banks, the inability of FB Advisor and GDFM to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that FB Advisor and GDFM will depend on their relationships with private equity sponsors, investment banks, and commercial banks, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If FB Advisor or GDFM fail to maintain their existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom FB Advisor and GDFM have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. 27 Table of Contents We may face increasing competition for investment opportunities, which could delay deployment of our capital, reduce returns and result in losses. We compete for investments with other business development companies and investment funds (including private equity funds, mezzanine funds and collateralized loan obligation, or CLO, funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, have begun to invest in areas they have not traditionally invested in, including making investments in small- to mid-sized private, U.S. companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in small and middle market private U.S. companies may intensify. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in small and middle market private U.S. companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financial sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. A significant portion of our investment portfolio will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there is and will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value, as determined by our board of directors. However, the majority of our investments are not publicly traded or actively traded on a secondary market but are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors. As a result, we will value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include dealer quotes for securities traded on the secondary market for institutional investors, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more of our investments. There is a risk that investors in our equity securities may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation—Senior Securities.” 28 Table of Contents The amount of any distributions we may make is uncertain. Our distribution proceeds have exceeded and in the future may exceed our net investment income, particularly during the period before we have substantially invested the net proceeds from our public offering. Therefore, portions of the distributions that we make may represent a return of capital to you for tax purposes, which will lower your tax basis in your shares and reduce the amount of funds we have for investment in targeted assets. We may not be able to pay you distributions, and our distributions may not grow over time. We may pay distributions from offering proceeds, borrowings or the sale of assets to the extent our cash flow from operations, net investment income or earnings are not sufficient to fund declared distributions. We intend to declare distributions on either a semi-monthly or monthly basis and pay distributions on either a monthly or quarterly basis. We will pay these distributions to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We may fund distributions from the uninvested proceeds of this offering and borrowings. We have paid and may continue to pay distributions from the sale of assets to the extent distributions exceed our net investment income or cash flows from operations. While Franklin Square Holdings has, in the past, limited our expenses to ensure that such expenses were reasonable in relation to our income, we cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a targeted level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. We do not expect that conditions will require Franklin Square Holdings to provide reimbursements in the future. Our ability to pay distributions might be adversely affected by, among other things, the impact of one or more of the risk factors described herein. In addition, the inability to satisfy the asset coverage test applicable to us as a business development company may limit our ability to pay distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our net investment income, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable business development company regulations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will pay distributions to our stockholders in the future. In the event that we encounter delays in locating suitable investment opportunities, we may pay all or a substantial portion of our distributions from the proceeds of our public offering or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow, which may constitute a return of your capital and will lower your tax basis in your shares. Distributions from the proceeds of our public offering or from borrowings also could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in our portfolio companies. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay you distributions and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, we will have significant flexibility in investing the net proceeds of this offering and may use the net proceeds from our public offering in ways with which investors may not agree or for purposes other than those contemplated at the time of our public offering. If we internalize our management functions, your interest in us could be diluted, and we could incur other significant costs associated with being self-managed. Our board of directors may decide in the future to internalize our management functions. If we do so, we may elect to negotiate to acquire FB Advisor’s assets and personnel. At this time, we cannot anticipate the form or amount of consideration or other terms relating to any such acquisition. Such consideration could take many forms, including cash payments, promissory notes and shares of our common stock. The payment of such consideration could result in dilution of your interests as a stockholder and could reduce the earnings per share attributable to your investment. 29 Table of Contents In addition, while we would no longer bear the costs of the various fees and expenses we expect to pay to FB Advisor under the existing investment advisory and administrative services agreement, we would incur the compensation and benefits costs of our officers and other employees and consultants that are now being paid by FB Advisor or its affiliates. In addition, we may issue equity awards to officers, employees and consultants. These awards would decrease net income and may further dilute your investment. We cannot reasonably estimate the amount of fees we would save or the costs we would incur if we became self-managed. If the expenses we assume as a result of an internalization are higher than the expenses we avoid paying to FB Advisor, our earnings per share would be lower as a result of the internalization than it otherwise would have been, potentially decreasing the amount of funds available to distribute to our stockholders and the value of our shares. As we are currently organized, we will not have any employees. If we elect to internalize our operations, we would employ personnel and would be subject to potential liabilities commonly faced by employers, such as workers disability and compensation claims and other employee-related liabilities and grievances. If we internalize our management functions, we could have difficulty integrating these functions as a stand-alone entity. Currently, individuals employed by FB Advisor and its affiliates perform asset management and general and administrative functions, including accounting and financial reporting, for multiple entities. These personnel have a great deal of know-how and experience. We may fail to properly identify the appropriate mix of personnel and capital needs to operate as a stand-alone entity. An inability to manage an internalization transaction effectively could thus result in our incurring excess costs and/or suffering deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting. Such deficiencies could cause us to incur additional costs, and our management’s attention could be diverted from effectively managing our investments. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Additionally, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations relating to permitted investments may cause us to alter our investment strategy to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities. Such changes could result in material differences to our strategies and plans as set forth herein and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of FB Advisor and GDFM to other types of investments in which FB Advisor and GDFM may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain. In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, institutes a wide range of reforms that will have an impact on all financial institutions. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time, most of which will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full impact such requirements will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with any such laws, regulations or principles, or changes thereto, may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, these changes could be materially adverse to us and our stockholders. 30 Table of Contents As a public company, we are subject to regulations not applicable to private companies, such as provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Efforts to comply with such regulations will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with such regulations may adversely affect us. We are subject to regulations not applicable to private companies, such as provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. Our management is required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. We are required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we expect to incur significant additional expenses, which may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations, we may be adversely affected. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any previous period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. Risks Related to FB Advisor and Its Affiliates FB Advisor has limited experience managing a business development company or a regulated investment company, or RIC. FB Advisor has limited experience managing a BDC or a RIC and may not be able to successfully operate our business or achieve our investment objectives. As a result, an investment in our shares of common stock may entail more risk than the shares of common stock of a comparable company with a substantial operating history. The 1940 Act and the Code impose numerous constraints on the operations of business development companies and RICs that do not apply to the other types of investment vehicles previously managed by FB Advisor. For example, under the 1940 Act, business development companies are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of qualifying U.S. private or thinly traded companies. Moreover, qualification for RIC tax treatment under subchapter M of the Code requires satisfaction of source-of-income, diversification and other requirements. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a business development company or RIC or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. FB Advisor’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. FB Advisor and its affiliates, including our officers and some of our directors, face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and our affiliates, which could result in actions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. FB Advisor and its affiliates receive substantial fees from us in return for their services, and these fees could influence the advice provided to us. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to public offerings of equity by us, which allow the dealer manager to earn additional dealer manager fees and FB Advisor to earn increased asset management fees. In addition, the decision to utilize leverage has increased our assets and, as a result, has increased the amount of management fees payable to FB Advisor. 31 Table of Contents We may be obligated to pay FB Advisor incentive compensation even if we incur a net loss due to a decline in the value of our portfolio. Our investment advisory and administrative services agreement entitles FB Advisor to receive incentive compensation on income regardless of any capital losses. In such case, we may be required to pay FB Advisor incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or if we incur a net loss for that quarter. Any incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income may be computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously included in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. FB Advisor is not under any obligation to reimburse us for any part of the incentive fee it received that was based on accrued income that we never received as a result of a default by an entity on the obligation that resulted in the accrual of such income, and such circumstances would result in our paying an incentive fee on income we never received. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income (such as deferred interest that is accrued as original issue discount) in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash and to make distributions with respect to such income to maintain our status as a RIC even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. Under such circumstances, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. This difficulty in making the required distribution may be amplified to the extent that we are required to pay an incentive fee with respect to such accrued income for which we have not received a corresponding cash payment. As a result, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. For additional discussion regarding the tax implications of a RIC, see “—Federal Income Tax Risks—We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or to satisfy RIC distribution requirements.” The time and resources that individuals employed by FB Advisor and GDFM devote to us may be diverted and we may face additional competition due to the fact that individuals employed by FB Advisor and GDFM are not prohibited from raising money for or managing another entity that makes the same types of investments that we target. Neither FB Advisor nor GSO are prohibited from raising money for and managing another investment entity that makes the same types of investments as those we target. As a result, the time and resources that these individuals may devote to us may be diverted. In addition, we may compete with any such investment entity for the same investors and investment opportunities. If we are able to obtain exemptive relief from the SEC, we also intend to co-invest with any such investment entity to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act, or the rules and regulations thereunder. There is no assurance that we will obtain such relief. In the event the SEC does not grant us relief, we could be limited in our ability to invest in certain portfolio companies in which GDFM or any of its affiliates are investing or are invested. Even if we are able to receive exemptive relief, we will be unable to participate in certain transactions originated by GSO or its affiliates prior to receipt of such relief. Affiliates of GDFM, whose primary business include the origination of investments, engage in investment advisory business with accounts that compete with us. Affiliates of GDFM have no obligation to make their originated investment opportunities available to GDFM or to us. Our incentive fee may induce FB Advisor to make, and GDFM to recommend, speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to FB Advisor may create an incentive for it to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation 32 Table of Contents arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to FB Advisor is determined may encourage it to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. In addition, the fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, may encourage FB Advisor to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be in our best interests, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. In addition, since GDFM will receive a portion of the advisory fees paid to FB Advisor, GDFM may have an incentive to recommend investments that are riskier or more speculative. Risks Related to Business Development Companies The requirement that we invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance with our current business strategy; conversely, the failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could result in our failure to maintain our status as a business development company. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation.” Therefore, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets. Conversely, if we fail to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose of investments at an inopportune time to comply with the 1940 Act. If we were forced to sell non-qualifying investments in the portfolio for compliance purposes, the proceeds from such sale could be significantly less than the current value of such investments. Failure to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company and RIC will affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise additional capital or borrow for investment purposes, which may have a negative effect on our growth. As a result of the annual distribution requirement to qualify as a RIC, we may need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. We may issue “senior securities,” including borrowing money from banks or other financial institutions only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. Our ability to issue different types of securities is also limited. Compliance with these requirements may unfavorably limit our investment opportunities and reduce our ability in comparison to other companies to profit from favorable spreads between the rates at which we can borrow and the rates at which we can lend. As a BDC, therefore, we intend to continuously issue equity at a rate more frequent than our privately owned competitors, which may lead to greater stockholder dilution. We expect to borrow for investment purposes. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the asset coverage test, which would prohibit us from paying distributions and could prevent us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy the asset coverage test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our debt financing, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. 33 Table of Contents Under the 1940 Act, we generally are prohibited from issuing or selling our common stock at a price below net asset value per share, which may be a disadvantage as compared with other public companies. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors and independent directors determine that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders as well as those stockholders that are not affiliated with us approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the fair value of such securities. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of a majority of the independent members of our board of directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any securities from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our board of directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our board of directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by FB Advisor without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We are uncertain of our sources for funding our future capital needs; if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. The net proceeds from the sale of shares will be used for our investment opportunities, operating expenses and for payment of various fees and expenses such as base management fees, incentive fees and other fees. Any working capital reserves we maintain may not be sufficient for investment purposes, and we may require debt or equity financing to operate. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for investments or for any other reason, these sources of funding may not be available to us. Consequently, if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. As a result, we would be less able to achieve portfolio diversification and our investment objectives, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans, second lien secured loans and, to a lesser extent, mezzanine debt and selected equity investments issued by private U.S. companies, including small and middle market companies. Senior Secured Loans and Second Lien Secured Loans. When we invest in senior secured term loans and second lien secured loans, we will generally take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. We expect this security interest to help mitigate 34 Table of Contents the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time or lose its entire value, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. Also, in some circumstances, our security interest could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Mezzanine Debt. Our mezzanine debt investments will generally be subordinated to senior loans and will generally be unsecured. This may result in a heightened level of risk and volatility or a loss of principal, which could lead to the loss of the entire investment. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our stockholders to non-cash income. Since we will not receive any principal repayments prior to the maturity of some of our mezzanine debt investments, such investments will be of greater risk than amortizing loans. Equity Investments. We expect to make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in senior secured and second lien secured loans or mezzanine debt, we may acquire warrants to purchase equity securities. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. In addition, investing in small and middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including that they: • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tends to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and members of FB Advisor may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. 35 Table of Contents Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We invest primarily in first lien, second lien and, to a lesser extent, mezzanine debt issued by private U.S. companies, including small and middle market private U.S. companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we intend to generally structure certain of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In situations where a bankruptcy carries a high degree of political significance, our legal rights may be subordinated to other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. We generally will not control our portfolio companies. We do not expect to control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements with such portfolio companies may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. We are subject to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates. While the majority of our investments are floating-rate debt instruments, to the extent that we invest in fixed-rate securities or loans, general interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt for our financing needs, if any. We may enter into total return swap agreements or other derivative transactions which expose us to certain risks, including risks similar to those associated with the use of leverage. Our wholly-owned financing subsidiary, Arch Street, has entered into a TRS with Citibank. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments” for a more detailed discussion of the terms of the TRS between Arch Street and Citibank. 36 Table of Contents A TRS is a contract in which one party agrees to make periodic payments to another party based on the change in the market value of the assets underlying the TRS, which may include a specified security, basket of securities or securities indices during the specified period, in return for periodic payments based on a fixed or variable interest rate. A TRS is typically used to obtain exposure to a security or market without owning or taking physical custody of such security or investing directly in such market. A TRS may effectively add leverage to our portfolio because, in addition to our total net assets, we would be subject to investment exposure on the amount of securities subject to the TRS. A TRS is also subject to the risk that a counterparty will default on its payment obligations thereunder or that we will not be able to meet our obligations to the counterparty. In the case of the TRS with Citibank, Arch Street is required to post cash collateral amounts to secure its obligations to Citibank under the TRS. Citibank, however, is not required to collateralize any of its obligations to Arch Street under the TRS. In addition to customary events of default and termination events, the agreements governing the TRS with Citibank contain the following termination events: (a) a failure to satisfy the portfolio criteria for at least 30 days; (b) a failure to post initial cash collateral or additional collateral as required by the agreements; (c) a default by Arch Street or us with respect to indebtedness in an amount equal to or greater than the lesser of $10,000 and 2% of our net asset value at such time; (d) a merger of Arch Street or us meeting certain criteria; (e) us or Arch Street amending our respective constituent documents to alter our investment strategy in a manner that has or could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect; and (f) our ceasing to be the investment manager of Arch Street or having authority to enter into transactions under the TRS on behalf of Arch Street, and not being replaced by an entity reasonably acceptable to Citibank. In addition to the rights of Citibank to terminate the TRS following an event of default or termination event as described above, Citibank may terminate the TRS on or after the second anniversary of the effectiveness of the TRS. Arch Street may terminate the TRS at any time upon providing no more than 30 days, and no less than 10 days, prior notice to Citibank. Any termination prior to the second anniversary of the effectiveness of the TRS will result in payment of an early termination fee to Citibank. Upon any termination of the TRS, Arch Street will be required to pay Citibank the amount of any decline in the aggregate value of the loans subject to the TRS or, alternatively, will be entitled to receive the amount of any appreciation in the aggregate value of such loans. In the event that Citibank chooses to exercise its termination rights, it is possible that Arch Street will owe more to Citibank or, alternatively, will be entitled to receive less from Citibank than it would have if Arch Street controlled the timing of such termination due to the existence of adverse market conditions at the time of such termination. In addition, because a TRS is a form of synthetic leverage, such arrangements are subject to risks similar to those associated with the use of leverage. See “—Risks Relating to Debt Financing” below. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we will make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing first priority debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not 37 Table of Contents sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. A covenant breach by our portfolio companies may harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we may make could include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may make direct equity investments in companies. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We intend to seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these put rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. Our investments are primarily in privately held companies. Investments in private companies pose certain incremental risks as compared to investments in public companies. First, private companies have reduced access to the capital markets, resulting in diminished capital resources and the ability to withstand financial distress. Second, the investments themselves tend to be less liquid. As such, we may have difficulty exiting an investment promptly or at a desired price prior to maturity or outside of a normal amortization schedule. As a result, the relative lack of liquidity and the potential diminished capital resources of our target portfolio companies may affect our investment returns. Finally, little public information generally exists about private companies. Further, these companies may not have third-party debt ratings or audited financial statements. We must therefore rely on the ability of FB Advisor and/or GDFM to obtain adequate information through due diligence to evaluate the creditworthiness and potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information will generally not be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. 38 Table of Contents A lack of liquidity in certain of our investments may adversely affect our business. We invest in certain companies whose securities are not publicly traded or actively traded on the secondary market and are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of certain of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. The reduced liquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected return on the investment. Risks Relating to Debt Financing The agreements governing Broad Street’s revolving credit facility contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our wholly-owned financing subsidiary, Broad Street, has entered into a revolving credit facility with Deutsche Bank. The agreements governing this facility contain default provisions such as (a) the failure to make principal payments when due or interest payments within three business days of when due; (b) borrowings under the facility exceeding the applicable advance rates; (c) the purchase by Broad Street of certain ineligible assets; (d) the insolvency or bankruptcy of us or Broad Street; (e) our ceasing to act as investment manager of Broad Street’s assets; (f) the decline of our net asset value below $50,000; and (g) fraud or other illicit acts by us or FB Advisor or GDFM in our or their investment advisory capacities. An event of default under the facility would result, among other things, in the termination of the availability of further funds under the facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the facility. This could disrupt our business, reduce our revenues and, by delaying any dividends allowed to us under the facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business, make distribution payments to our stockholders and maintain our status as a RIC. The agreements governing the facility also require Broad Street to comply with certain operational covenants. These covenants require Broad Street to, among other things, maintain eligible assets with an aggregate value equal to or exceeding a specified multiple of the borrowings under the facility. The occurrence of certain “Super-Collateralization Events” results in an increase of the minimum aggregate value of eligible assets that Broad Street is required to maintain. Super-Collateralization Events include, without limitation, (i) certain key employees ceasing to be directors, principals, officers or investment managers of GDFM; (ii) the bankruptcy or insolvency of GDFM or FB Advisor; (iii) GDFM ceasing to act as our sub-adviser or FB Advisor ceasing to act as our investment adviser; (iv) our ceasing to act as Broad Street’s investment manager, becoming bankrupt or insolvent, defaulting in certain material agreements or failing to maintain a net asset value at least equal to $50,000; and (v) us or GDFM or FB Advisor committing fraud or other illicit acts in our or their investment advisory capacities. A decline in the value of assets owned by Broad Street or the occurrence of a Super- 39 Table of Contents Collateralization Event under the facility could result in us being required to contribute additional assets to Broad Street, which would likely disrupt our business and impact our ability to meet our investment objectives and pay distributions to our stockholders. The failure to meet collateral requirements under the facility or the occurrence of any other event of default which results in the termination of the facility may force Broad Street or us to liquidate positions at a time and/or at a price which is disadvantageous to us and could result in losses. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the facility, Deutsche Bank would have the right to the assets pledged as collateral supporting the amounts outstanding under the facility and could sell such assets in order to satisfy amounts due under the facility. Each borrowing under the facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure you that Broad Street will be able to borrow funds under the facility at any particular time or at all. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a more detailed discussion of the terms of the facility. If we borrow money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us will be magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of borrowings, also known as leverage, increases the volatility of investments by magnifying the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. If we use leverage to partially finance our investments, through borrowing from banks and other lenders, you will experience increased risks of investing in our common stock. If the value of our assets increases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock distribution payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $297.2 million of indebtedness outstanding under Broad Street’s revolving credit facility with Deutsche Bank. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Since we intend to use debt to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates when we have debt outstanding, our cost of funds will increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with equity and long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee preferred return and may result in a substantial increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to FB Advisor with respect to pre-incentive fee net investment income. 40 Table of Contents Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Investors will not know the purchase price per share at the time they submit their subscription agreements and could receive fewer shares of common stock than anticipated if our board of directors determines to increase the offering price to comply with the requirement that we avoid selling shares below net asset value per share. The purchase price at which you purchase shares will be determined at each semi-monthly closing date to ensure that the sales price is equal to or greater than the net asset value of our shares, after deducting selling commissions and dealer manager fees. As a result, in the event of an increase in our net asset value per share, your purchase price may be higher than the prior semi-monthly closing price per share, and therefore you may receive a smaller number of shares than if you had subscribed at the prior semi-monthly closing price. Investors will not know the purchase price per share at the time they submit their subscription agreements and could pay a premium for their shares of common stock if our board of directors does not decrease the offering price in the event of a decline to our net asset value per share. The purchase price at which you purchase shares will be determined at each semi-monthly closing date to ensure that the sales price is equal to or greater than the net asset value of our shares, after deducting selling commissions and dealer manager fees. In the event of a decrease to our net asset value per share, you could pay a premium of more than 5% for your shares of common stock if our board of directors does not decrease the offering price. A decline in our net asset value per share to an amount more than 5% below our current offering price, net of selling commissions and dealer manager fees, creates a rebuttable presumption that there has been a material change in the value of our assets such that a reduction in the offering price per share is warranted. This presumption may only be rebutted if our board of directors, in consultation with our management, reasonably and in good faith determines that the decline in net asset value per share is the result of a temporary movement in the credit markets or the value of our assets, rather than a more fundamental shift in the valuation of our portfolio. In the event that (i) net asset value per share decreases to more than 5% below our current net offering price and (ii) our board of directors believes that such decrease in net asset value per share is the result of a non-temporary movement in the credit markets or the value of our assets, our board of directors will undertake to establish a new net offering price that is not more than 5% above our net asset value per share. If our board of directors determines that the decline in our net asset value per share is the result of a temporary movement in the credit markets or the value of our assets, investors will purchase shares at an offering price per share, net of selling commissions and dealer manager fees, which represents a premium to the net asset value per share of greater than 5%. If we are unable to raise substantial funds in our ongoing, continuous “best efforts” offering, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make, and the value of your investment in us may be reduced in the event our assets under-perform. Our continuous offering is being made on a best efforts basis, whereby the dealer manager and broker-dealers participating in the offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the shares. To the extent that less than the maximum number of shares is subscribed for, the opportunity for diversification of our investments may be decreased and the returns achieved on those investments may be reduced as a result of allocating all of our expenses among a smaller capital base. Our shares are not listed on an exchange or quoted through a quotation system, and will not be for the foreseeable future, if ever. Therefore, our stockholders have limited liquidity and may not receive a full return of invested capital upon selling shares. Our shares are illiquid assets for which there is not a secondary market, and it is not expected that any will develop in the future. We intend to seek to complete a liquidity event for our stockholders within five to seven years following the completion of our offering stage or at such earlier time as our board of directors may 41 Table of Contents determine, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors. However, there can be no assurance that we will complete a liquidity event within such time or at all. We expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duty to our stockholders, will determine to pursue a liquidity event when it believes that then-current market conditions are favorable for a liquidity event, and that such an event is in the best interests of our stockholders. A liquidity event could include (1) the sale of all or substantially all of our assets either on a complete portfolio basis or individually followed by a liquidation, (2) a listing of our shares on a national securities exchange or (3) a merger or another transaction approved by our board in which our stockholders will receive cash or shares of a publicly traded company. Prior to the completion of a liquidity event, our share repurchase program may provide a limited opportunity for investors to achieve liquidity, subject to certain restrictions and limitations, at a price which may reflect a discount from the purchase price you paid for the shares being repurchased. In making the decision to apply for listing of our shares, our directors will try to determine whether listing our shares or liquidating our assets will result in greater value for our stockholders. In making a determination of what type of liquidity event is in the best interest of our stockholders, our board of directors, including our independent directors, may consider a variety of criteria, including, but not limited to, market conditions, portfolio diversification, portfolio performance, our financial condition, potential access to capital as a listed company, market conditions for the sale of our assets or listing of our common stock, internal management requirements to become a perpetual life company and the potential for stockholder liquidity. If our shares are listed, we cannot assure you a public trading market will develop. Further, even if we do complete a liquidity event, you may not receive a return of all of your invested capital. We are not obligated to complete a liquidity event by a specified date; therefore, it will be difficult for an investor to sell his or her shares. We intend to seek to complete a liquidity event for our stockholders within five to seven years following the completion of our offering stage or at such earlier time as our board of directors may determine, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors. We expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of the requisite standard of care applicable to directors under Maryland law, will determine to pursue a liquidity event when it believes that then-current market conditions are favorable for a liquidity event, and that such a transaction is in the best interests of our stockholders. A liquidity event could include (1) the sale of all or substantially all of our assets either on a complete portfolio basis or individually followed by a liquidation, (2) a listing of our shares on a national securities exchange or (3) a merger or another transaction approved by our board in which our stockholders will receive cash or shares of a publicly traded company. However, there can be no assurance that we will complete a liquidity event within such time or at all. If we do not successfully complete a liquidity event, liquidity for an investor’s shares will be limited to our share repurchase program, which we have no obligation to maintain. The dealer manager in our continuous offering may be unable to sell a sufficient number of shares of common stock for us to achieve our investment objectives. The dealer manager for our public offering is FS2 Capital Partners, LLC, or our dealer manager. Our dealer manager has limited experience selling shares on behalf of a BDC. There is no assurance that it will be able to sell a sufficient number of shares to allow us to have adequate funds to purchase a diversified portfolio of investments and generate income sufficient to cover our expenses. As a result, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives, and you could lose some or all of the value of your investment. 42 Table of Contents Because the dealer manager is one of our affiliates, you will not have the benefit of an independent due diligence review of us, which is customarily performed in firm commitment underwritten offerings; the absence of an independent due diligence review increases the risks and uncertainty you face as a stockholder. The dealer manager, FS2 Capital Partners, LLC, is one of our affiliates. As a result, its due diligence review and investigation of us cannot be considered to be an independent review. Therefore, you do not have the benefit of an independent review and investigation of our offering of the type normally performed by an unaffiliated, independent underwriter in a firm commitment underwritten public securities offering. Our ability to successfully conduct our continuous offering is dependent, in part, on the ability of the dealer manager to successfully establish, operate and maintain a network of broker-dealers. Other than serving as dealer manager for our public offering, the dealer manager has no prior experience acting as a dealer manager for a public offering. The success of our public offering, and correspondingly our ability to implement our business strategy, is dependent upon the ability of the dealer manager to establish and maintain a network of licensed securities broker-dealers and other agents to sell our shares. If the dealer manager fails to perform, we may not be able to raise adequate proceeds through our public offering to implement our investment strategy. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our investment strategy, you could lose all or a part of your investment. We intend to offer to repurchase your shares on a quarterly basis. As a result, you will have limited opportunities to sell your shares and, to the extent you are able to sell your shares under the repurchase program, you may not be able to recover the amount of your investment in our shares. We intend to conduct tender offers to allow you to tender your shares on a quarterly basis at a price equal to 90% of our public offering price in effect on the date of repurchase. The first such tender offer commenced in March 2010 and the repurchase occurred in connection with our April 1, 2010 closing. The share repurchase program will include numerous restrictions that limit your ability to sell your shares. We intend to limit the number of shares repurchased pursuant to our share repurchase program as follows: (1) we currently intend to limit the number of shares to be repurchased during any calendar year to the number of shares we can repurchase with the proceeds we receive from the sale of shares of our common stock under our distribution reinvestment plan, although at the discretion of our board of directors, we may also use cash on hand, cash available from borrowings and cash from liquidation of securities investments as of the end of the applicable period to repurchase shares; (2) we will not repurchase shares in any calendar year in excess of 10% of the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the prior calendar year, or 2.5% in each quarter; (3) unless you tender all of your shares, you must tender at least 25% of the amount of shares you have purchased in the offering and must maintain a minimum balance of $5 subsequent to submitting a portion of your shares for repurchase by us; and (4) to the extent that the number of shares put to us for repurchase exceeds the number of shares that we are able to purchase, we will repurchase shares on a pro rata basis, not on a first-come, first-served basis. Further, we will have no obligation to repurchase shares if the repurchase would violate the restrictions on distributions under federal law or Maryland law, which prohibits distributions that would cause a corporation to fail to meet statutory tests of solvency. These limits may prevent us from accommodating all repurchase requests made in any year. Our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate the repurchase program upon 30 days notice. We will notify you of such developments (1) in our quarterly reports or (2) by means of a separate mailing to you, accompanied by disclosure in a current or periodic report under the Exchange Act. In addition, although we have adopted a share repurchase program, we have discretion to not repurchase your shares, to suspend the plan, and to cease repurchases. Further, the plan has many limitations and should not be relied upon as a method to sell shares promptly and at a desired price. The timing of our repurchase offers pursuant to our share repurchase program may be at a time that is disadvantageous to our stockholders. When we make quarterly repurchase offers pursuant to the share repurchase program, we may offer to repurchase shares at a price that is lower than the price that investors paid for shares in our offering. As a result, 43 Table of Contents to the extent investors have the ability to sell their shares to us as part of our share repurchase program, the price at which an investor may sell shares, which will be 90% of the offering price in effect on the date of repurchase, may be lower than what an investor paid in connection with the purchase of shares in our offering. In addition, in the event an investor chooses to participate in our share repurchase program, the investor will be required to provide us with notice of intent to participate prior to knowing what the net asset value per share will be on the repurchase date. Although an investor will have the ability to withdraw a repurchase request prior to the repurchase date, to the extent an investor seeks to sell shares to us as part of our periodic share repurchase program, the investor will be required to do so without knowledge of what the repurchase price of our shares will be on the repurchase date. We may be unable to invest a significant portion of the net proceeds of our offering on acceptable terms in an acceptable timeframe. Delays in investing the net proceeds of our offering may impair our performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any investments that meet our investment objectives or that any investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds of our offering on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipate or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. In addition, even if we are able to raise significant proceeds, we will not be permitted to use such proceeds to co-invest with certain entities affiliated with GDFM in transactions originated by GSO or its affiliates unless we first obtain an exemptive order from the SEC. We are seeking an exemptive order. However, there can be no assurance that we will obtain such relief. Before making investments, we will invest the net proceeds of our public offering primarily in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, repurchase agreements and high-quality debt instruments maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which may produce returns that are significantly lower than the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objectives. As a result, any distributions that we pay while our portfolio is not fully invested in securities meeting our investment objectives may be lower than the distributions that we may be able to pay when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objectives. A stockholder’s interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of an investment in us. Our investors do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue 450,000,000 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our charter, a majority of our entire board of directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of stock without stockholder approval. After an investor purchases shares, our board may elect to sell additional shares in the future, issue equity interests in private offerings or issue share-based awards to our independent directors or employees of FB Advisor. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after an investor purchases our shares, an investor’s percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our investments, an investor may also experience dilution in the book value and fair value of your shares. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws as well as provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law and our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our company or the removal of our incumbent directors. We will be covered by the Business Combination Act of the Maryland General Corporation Law to the extent that such statute is not superseded by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our 44 Table of Contents board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any person to the extent that such business combination receives the prior approval of our board of directors, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. Under the Control Share Acquisition Act of the Maryland General Corporation Law, “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our common stock. The Business Combination Act (if our board should repeal the resolution) and the Control Share Acquisition Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Additionally, our board of directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our board of directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the value of our common stock. Federal Income Tax Risks We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or to satisfy RIC distribution requirements. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. See “Item 1. Business—Taxation as a Regulated Investment Company.” • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act and may in the future become subject to certain financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. 45 Table of Contents We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for tax purposes. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 