Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business Since we have limited operating history, it is difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business. We completed our initial operating subsidiary acquisition as of January 1, 2011. Therefore, our limited operating history makes it difficult for potential investors to evaluate our business or prospective operations and your purchase of our securities. As an early stage company, we are subject to the risks inherent in the financing, expenditures, complications and delays inherent in a new business. Accordingly, our business and success faces risks from uncertainties faced by developing companies in a competitive environment. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or that we will ultimately be able to attain profitability. We are dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business. We rely heavily on the expertise, experience and continued services of Dr. Johnny Thomas, our Chief Executive Officer, Robert Potts, our President and Chief Operating Officer, as well as other executive employees. Although Dr. Thomas and Mr. Potts are employed under employment contracts, the loss of either of their services and the inability to replace either of them and/or attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect us. If Dr. Thomas, Mr. Potts or other key executive employees were to leave, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any successor obtains the necessary training and experience. We do not have key man life insurance policies on our management. We may need additional financing to execute our business plan and fund operations, which additional financing may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. As of December 31, 2013, we had $8,403,731 cash on hand. On February 22, 2013, we entered into a credit agreement for a $10 million line of credit, of which $1,500,000 was funded on September 11, 2013 and $4,000,000 is currently available upon our meeting the terms and conditions of the credit facility. Therefore, our short term liquidity needs have been satisfied and we have sufficient capital to fund our operations for the next 12 months. However, in view of our business plan we may not be able to execute our business plan and fund business operations long enough to achieve profitability. In such event, we would be forced to scale back our growth strategy and operations. Our ultimate success depends upon our ability to raise additional capital. We are pursuing sources of additional capital through various means, including joint venture projects and debt or equity financing. However, we expect to fund much of our growth through project financing by using a combination of debt and equity financing which may not be available when needed. Future financing through equity investments is likely to be dilutive to existing stockholders. Also, the terms of securities we may issue in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors than our current investors. Newly issued securities may include preferences, superior voting rights, the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, and the issuance of incentive awards under employee equity incentive plans, which may have additional dilutive effects. Further, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital and/or financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we may issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which will adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to obtain needed financing may be impaired by factors, including the condition of the economy and capital markets, both generally and specifically in our industry, and the fact that we are not profitable, which could impact the availability or cost of future financing. If the amount of capital we are able to raise from financing activities, together with our revenues from operations, is not sufficient to satisfy our capital needs, we may need to reduce our operations accordingly. 25 Project development or construction activities may not be successful and proposed projects may not receive required permits or construction may not proceed as planned. The development and construction of our projects involves numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for preliminary engineering, permitting, legal, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: (i) negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement and construction agreements; (ii) receipt of required governmental permits and approvals, including the right to interconnect to the electric grid on economically acceptable terms; (iii) payment of interconnection and other deposits (some of which may be non-refundable); (iv) obtaining construction financing; and (v) timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: (i) delays in obtaining required government permits and approvals with acceptable conditions; (ii) uncertainties relating to land costs for projects; (iii) unforeseen engineering problems; (iv) construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; (v) work stoppages; (vi) cost over-runs; (vii) equipment and materials supply; (viii) adverse weather conditions; and (ix) environmental and geological conditions. We may be unable to obtain governmental approvals, property rights and/or financing for the construction, development and operation of our non-regulated energy investments. Construction, development and operation of energy investments, such as natural gas storage facilities, pipeline transportation systems and solar energy projects, are subject to federal and state regulatory oversight and require certain property rights and approvals, including permits and licenses for such facilities and systems. We or our joint venture partnerships may be unable to obtain, in a cost-efficient or timely manner, all such needed property rights, permits and licenses in order to successfully construct and develop our non-regulated energy facilities and systems. Successful financing of our energy investments requires participation by willing financial institutions and lenders, as well as acquisition of capital at favorable interest rates. If we do not obtain the necessary regulatory approvals and financing, our equity investments could be impaired, and such impairment could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our investments in clean energy projects are subject to substantial risks. Commercial and residential solar energy projects, such as those in which we are investing, are relatively new and have been developed through advancement in technologies whose commercial application is limited, and which are unrelated to our core businesses. These projects are dependent upon current regulatory and tax incentives and there is uncertainty about the extent to which such incentives will be available in the future. These projects face the risk that the current regulatory regimes and tax laws may expire or be adversely modified during the life of the projects. In addition, because these projects depend on technology outside of our expertise, there are risks associated with our ability to develop and manage such projects profitably, including logistical risks and potential delays related to construction, permitting, regulatory approvals, as well as the operational risk that the projects in service will not perform according to expectations due to equipment failure, suboptimal weather conditions or other factors beyond our control. All of the aforementioned risks could reduce the availability of viable solar energy projects for development. Furthermore, at the development or acquisition stage, because of the nascent nature of the renewable energy industry and the limited experience with the relevant technology, our ability to predict actual performance results may be hindered and the projects may not perform as predicted. 26 The installation of our on-site combined heat and power (CHP) or cogeneration power plants may be affected by opposition from local utility companies. Utility policies and regulations in most states are not prepared to accommodate widespread on-site generation. These barriers erected by electric utility companies and unfavorable regulations, where applicable, make it more difficult or uneconomic for us to connect to the customer grid at customer sites and are an impediment to the growth of our business. Development of our on-site CHP or cogeneration business could be adversely affected by any slowdown or reversal in the utility deregulation process or by difficulties in negotiating backup power supply agreements with electric providers located in the different geographic areas of the country where we intend to conduct our business. The economic viability of our projects depends on the price spread between fuel and electricity thus the volatility of the prices of these components creates risk that our projects will be uneconomic. The economic viability of on-site CHP or cogeneration projects is dependent upon the price spread between fuel and electricity prices. Volatility of one component of the spread, the cost of natural gas and other fuels such as propane or distillate oil, can be managed by means of future contracts. However, the regional rates charged for both base load and peak electricity services may decline periodically due to excess capacity arising from over-building of utility power plants or recessions in economic activity. Any sustained weakness in electricity prices could significantly limit our market for our CHP or cogeneration on-site energy services. Our solar engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) growth strategy is dependent upon continued availability of third-party financing arrangements for our customers. Generally, our customers must enter into agreements to finance the construction and purchase of our solar photovoltaic (PV) projects. These structured finance arrangements are complex and rely heavily on the creditworthiness of the customer as well as required returns on investment of the financing companies. Depending on the status of financial markets for solar project funding and general economic conditions overall, financial institutions may be unwilling or unable to finance the cost of construction of the solar PV project. Lack of credit for our customers or restrictions on financial institutions extending such credit will severely limit our ability to grow our revenues. In addition, an increase in interest or lending rates or a reduction in the supply of project debt financing could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing, making it difficult for our customers to secure the financing necessary to develop, build, purchase or install a solar PV facility on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our EPC services which may limit our growth or reduce our net sales. If solar power technology is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for solar power products does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would decline and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. The market for solar power products is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success is uncertain. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of solar power technology and demand for solar power products, including: Cost effectiveness of solar power technologies as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy technologies; performance and reliability of solar power products as compared with conventional and non-solar alternative energy products; capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease if the U.S. economy slows; and availability of government subsidies and incentives. If solar power technology proves unsuitable for widespread commercial deployment or if demand for solar power products fails to develop sufficiently, we would be unable to generate enough revenue to achieve and sustain profitability. In addition, demand for solar power products in the markets and geographic regions we target may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. 27 Compliance with environmental laws could adversely affect our operating results. Costs of compliance with federal, state, local and other foreign existing and future environmental regulations could adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. We will be required to comply with numerous environmental laws and regulations and to obtain numerous governmental permits in connection with energy efficiency products, and we may incur significant additional costs to comply with these requirements. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, damages and fines. Existing environmental regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to us or our customers, and future changes in environmental laws and regulations could occur. These factors may impose additional expense on our operations. In addition, private lawsuits or enforcement actions by federal, state, and/or foreign regulatory agencies may materially increase our costs. Certain environmental laws make us potentially liable on a joint and several basis for the remediation of contamination at or emanating from properties or facilities which we may acquire that arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances. Although we will seek to obtain indemnities against liabilities relating to historical contamination at the facilities we own or operate, we cannot provide any assurance that we will not incur liability relating to the remediation of contamination, including contamination we did not cause. We may not be able to obtain or maintain, from time to time, all required environmental regulatory approvals. A delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals or failure to obtain and comply with them could adversely affect our business and operating results. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We are a small company with six (6) full-time employees, including four (4) executive officers, at the parent level and 78 full-time employees on a Company-wide basis, as of February 21, 2014. In addition to prospective employees hired from companies which we may acquire, we will need to expand our employee infrastructure for managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Future growth will impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. In order to manage our future growth, we will need to continue to improve our management, operational and financial controls and our reporting systems and procedures. All of these measures will require significant expenditures and will demand the attention of management. If we do not continue to enhance our management personnel and our operational and financial systems and controls in response to growth in our business, we could experience operating inefficiencies that could impair our competitive position and could increase our costs more than we had planned. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our corporate strategy will not be successful if demand for energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions does not develop. We believe, and our corporate strategy assumes, that the market for energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions will continue to grow, that we will increase our penetration of this market and that our revenue from selling into this market will continue to increase with future acquisitions. If our expectations as to the size of this market and our ability to sell our products and services in this market are not correct, our corporate strategy will be unsuccessful and our business will be harmed. 28 Certain projects we may undertake for our customers may require significant capital, which our customers or we may finance through third parties, and such financing may not be available to our customers or to us on favorable terms, if at all. Certain energy efficiency projects are typically financed by third parties. The significant disruptions in the credit and capital markets in the last several years have made it more difficult for customers to obtain financing on acceptable terms or, in some cases, at all. Any inability by us or our customers to raise the funds necessary to finance our projects, or any inability by us to obtain a revolving credit facility, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business may be affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles, and these trends and cycles could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We expect that our business will be subject to seasonal fluctuations and construction cycles, particularly in climates that experience colder weather during the winter months, such as the northern United States and Canada, or at educational institutions, where large projects are typically carried out during summer months when their facilities are unoccupied. In addition, government customers, many of which have fiscal years that do not coincide with ours, typically follow annual procurement cycles and appropriate funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Further, government contracting cycles can be affected by the timing of, and delays in, the legislative process related to government programs and incentives that help drive demand for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. As a result, our revenue and operating income in the third quarter is expected to be typically higher, and our revenue and operating income in the first quarter is expected to be typically lower, than in other quarters of the year. As a result of such fluctuations, we may occasionally experience declines in revenue or earnings as compared to the immediately preceding quarter, and comparisons of our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our business depends, in part, on federal, state and local government support for energy efficiency and renewable energy, and a decline in such support could harm our business. We depend, in part, on government legislation and policies that support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects and that enhance the economic feasibility of our energy efficiency services and small-scale renewable energy projects. Many states offer incentives to offset the cost of solar power systems. These systems can take many forms, including direct rebates, state tax credits, system performance payments and Renewable Energy Credits (RECs). Moreover, the federal government currently offers a 30% tax credit for the installation of solar power systems. Businesses may also elect to accelerate the depreciation on their system over five years. Uncertainty about the introduction of, reduction in or elimination of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in significant reductions in demand for our services, which would negatively impact our sales. The U.S. government and several states support potential customers’ investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy through legislation and regulations that authorize and regulate the manner in which certain governmental entities do business with companies like us, encourage or subsidize governmental procurement of our services, provide regulatory, tax and other incentives to others to procure our services and provide us with tax and other incentives that reduce our costs or increase our revenue. Current market conditions have caused various state, local or federal incentive programs which help drive the economics for these projects to be unexpectedly depleted or substantially changed by the administrators. 29 For example, U.S. legislation in 1992 authorized federal agencies to enter into energy savings performance contracts (“ESPCs”), such as those that we may enter into with customers at a later date. In 2007, three years after the expiration of the original legislation, new ESPC legislation was enacted without an expiration provision, and in the same year, the President of the United States issued an executive order requiring federal agencies to set goals to reduce energy use and increase renewable energy sources and use. In addition, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) allocated $67 billion to promote clean energy, energy efficiency and advanced vehicles. Additionally, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 instituted the 1603 cash grant program, which may provide cash in lieu of an investment tax credit for eligible renewable energy generation sources for which construction commences prior to the end of 2010 where the project is placed in service by various dates set out in the act. The Internal Revenue Code (the “Code”), currently provides production tax credits for the generation of electricity from wind projects and from landfill gas fueled power projects, and an investment tax credit or grant in lieu of such tax credits for investments in LFG, wind, biomass and solar power generation projects. Various state and local governments have also implemented similar programs and incentives, including legislation authorizing the procurement of ESPCs. Prospective customers frequently depend on these programs to help justify the costs associated with, and to finance, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. If any of these incentives are adversely amended, eliminated or not extended beyond their current expiration dates, or if funding for these incentives is reduced, it could adversely affect our ability to obtain project commitments from new customers. A delay or failure by government agencies to administer, or make procurements under, these programs in a timely and efficient manner could have a material adverse effect on our potential customers’ willingness to enter into project commitments with us. Changes to tax, energy and environmental laws could reduce our prospective customers’ incentives and mandates to purchase certain kinds of services that we may supply, and could thereby adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A significant decline in the fiscal health of federal, state, provincial and local governments could reduce demand for our energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. Recent significant declines in the fiscal health of federal, state and local governmental entities may make it difficult for them to enter into contracts for our services or to obtain financing necessary to fund such contracts. We are subject to governmental regulation. Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals, permits and certificates may result in substantial costs to us. We are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state and local regulatory authorities. We are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and to obtain numerous authorizations, permits, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies and tariff rates that the Company can charge its customers, rates of return, the authorized cost of capital, recovery of pipeline replacement and environmental remediation costs and relationships with its affiliates. These agencies regulate various aspects of our business, including customer rates, services and natural gas pipeline operations. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) has regulatory authority over certain of our operations. Any Congressional legislation or agency regulation that would alter these or other similar statutory and regulatory structures in a way to significantly raise costs that could not be recovered in rates from customers, would reduce the availability of supply or capacity or that would reduce our competitiveness would negatively impact our earnings. In addition, the U.S. Senate has passed the Pipeline Transportation Safety Improvement Act and if enacted will increase federal regulatory oversight and could also increase administrative costs that may not be recovered in rates from customers, which could have an adverse impact on our earnings. 30 We cannot predict the impact of any future revisions or changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and applicable regulations. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations could influence our operating environment and may result in substantial costs to us. Each state is responsible for regulating the sale, installation and interconnection of alternative energy within their state. The construction of power generation projects typically is regulated at the state and provincial levels, and the operation of these projects also may be subject to state and provincial regulation as “utilities.” At the federal level, the ownership, operation, and sale of power generation facilities may be subject to regulation under Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, or PUHCA, the Federal Power Act, or FPA, and Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, or PURPA. New technologies may prove inappropriate and result in liability to us or may not gain market acceptance by customers. The solar power industry (and the alternative energy industry, in general) is subject to technological change. Our future success will depend on our ability to appropriately respond to changing technologies and changes in function of products and quality. If we adopt products and technologies that are not attractive to consumers, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining a significant share of our market. In addition, some new technologies are relatively untested and unperfected and may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may cause us to lose money. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of solar power products, which may significantly reduce demand for our products and services. New government regulations or utility policies pertaining to solar power systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems and our services. For example, there currently exist metering caps in certain jurisdictions which effectively limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the power grid. We plan to expand our business in part through future acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify or complete suitable acquisitions. Acquisitions are a significant part of our growth strategy. We plan to use acquisitions of companies or technologies to expand our project skill-sets and capabilities, expand our geographic markets, add experienced management and increase our product and service offerings. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement with acquisition targets on acceptable terms or arrange required financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. In addition, the time and effort involved in attempting to identify acquisition candidates and consummate acquisitions may divert members of our management from the operations of our company. 31 Any future acquisitions that we may make could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our business, financial condition or operating results. If we are successful in consummating acquisitions, those acquisitions could subject us to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: the purchase price we pay and/or unanticipated costs could significantly deplete our cash reserves or result in dilution to our existing stockholders; we may find that the acquired company or technologies do not improve market position as planned; we may have difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired company, as the combined operations will place significant demands on the Company’s management, technical, financial and other resources; key personnel and customers of the acquired company may terminate their relationships with the acquired company as a result of the acquisition; we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning and financial reporting; we may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities (including environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not be able to discover during our due diligence or adequately adjust for in our acquisition arrangements; our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may incur one-time write-offs or restructuring charges in connection with the acquisition; we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to amortization or impairment tests, which could result in future charges to earnings; and We may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. We may assume or be held liable for risks and liabilities (including environmental-related costs) as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not be able to discover during our due diligence or adequately adjust for in our acquisition arrangements; our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; we may incur one-time write-offs or restructuring charges in connection with the acquisition; we may acquire goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to amortization or impairment tests, which could result in future charges to earnings; and We may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated. We cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate or profitably manage any acquired business. In addition, we cannot assure you that, following any acquisition, our continued business will achieve sales levels, profitability, efficiencies or synergies that justify acquisition or that the acquisition will result in increased earnings for us in any future period. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar alternative energy sources may negatively impact our profitability. We believe that an end customer’s decision to purchase or install solar power capabilities is primarily driven by the cost and return on investment resulting from solar power systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the prices of conventional and non-solar alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels, could cause the demand for solar power systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. Changes in utility electric rates or net metering policies could also have a negative effect on our business. 32 Failure of third parties to manufacture quality products or provide reliable services in a timely manner could cause delays in the delivery of our services and completion of our projects, which could damage our reputation, have a negative impact on our relationships with our customers and adversely affect our growth. Our success depends on our ability to provide services and products in a timely manner, which, in part, depends on the ability of third parties to provide us with timely and reliable services and products, such as boilers, chillers, cogeneration systems, PV panels, lighting and other complex components. In providing our services we intend to rely on products that meet our design specifications and components manufactured and supplied by third parties, as well as on services performed by subcontractors. Warranties provided by third-party suppliers and subcontractors typically limit any direct harm we might experience as a result of our relying on their products and services. However, there can be no assurance that a supplier or subcontractor will be willing or able to fulfill its contractual obligations and make necessary repairs or replace equipment. In addition, these warranties generally expire within one to five years or may be of limited scope or provide limited remedies. If we are unable to avail ourselves of warranty protection, we may incur liability to our customers or additional costs related to the affected products and components, including replacement and installation costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, any delays, malfunctions, inefficiencies or interruptions in these products or services - even if covered by warranties - could adversely affect the quality and performance of our solutions. This could cause us to experience difficulty retaining current customers and attracting new customers, and could harm our brand, reputation and growth. In addition, any significant interruption or delay by our suppliers in the manufacture or delivery of products or services on which we depend could require us to expend considerable time, effort and expense to establish alternate sources for such products and services. We may need to assume responsibility under customer contracts for factors outside our control, including the risk that fuel prices will increase. We do not expect to take responsibility under our proposed contracts for a wide variety of factors outside our control. However, we may sometimes need to assume some level of risk and responsibility for certain factors - sometimes only to the extent that variations exceed specified thresholds particularly with contracts for renewable energy projects. Although we intend to structure our contracts so that our obligation to supply a customer with electricity, for example, does not exceed the quantity produced by the production facility, in some circumstances we may commit to supply a customer with specified minimum quantities based on our projections of the facility’s production capacity. In such circumstances, if we are unable to meet such commitments, we may be required to incur additional costs or face penalties. Despite measures to mitigate risks under these and other contracts, such steps may not be sufficient to avoid the need to incur increased costs to satisfy our commitments, and such costs could be material. Increased costs that we are unable to pass through to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our business will depend on experienced and skilled personnel, and if we are unable to attract and integrate skilled personnel, it will be more difficult for us to manage our business and complete projects. The success of our business will depend on the skill of our personnel. Accordingly, it is critical that we maintain, and continue to build, a highly experienced and specialized workforce, including engineers, project and construction management, and business development and sales professionals. In addition, our construction projects require a significant amount of trade labor resources, and other skilled workers, as well as certain specialty subcontractor skills. 33 Competition for personnel, particularly those with expertise in the energy services and renewable energy industries, is high, and identifying candidates with the appropriate qualifications can be costly and difficult. We may not be able to hire the necessary personnel to implement our business strategy given our anticipated hiring needs, or we may need to provide higher compensation or more training to our personnel than we currently anticipate. In the event we are unable to attract, hire and retain the requisite personnel and subcontractors, we may experience delays in completing projects in accordance with project schedules and budgets, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results, harm our reputation and cause us to curtail our pursuit of new projects. Further, any increase in demand for personnel and specialty subcontractors may result in higher costs, causing us to exceed the budget on a project, which in turn may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and harm our relationships with our customers. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and our current or future competitors may be able to compete more effectively than we do, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, growth rates and market share. Our industry is highly competitive, with many companies of varying size and business models, many of which have their own proprietary technologies, compete for the same business as we do. Our competitors have longer operating histories and greater resources than us, and could focus their substantial financial resources to develop a competing business model, develop products or services that are more attractive to potential customers than what we offer or convince our potential customers that they should require financing arrangements that would be impractical for smaller companies to offer. Our competitors may also offer energy solutions at prices below cost, devote significant sales forces to compete with us or attempt to recruit our key personnel by increasing compensation, any of which could improve their competitive positions. Any of these competitive factors could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain customers, cause us to lower our prices in order to compete, and reduce our market share and revenue, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to effectively compete against our current competitors or additional companies that may enter our markets. In addition, we may also face competition based on technological developments that reduce demand for electricity, increase power supplies through existing infrastructure or that otherwise compete with our products and services. We also encounter competition in the form of potential customers electing to develop solutions or perform services internally rather than engaging an outside provider such as us. We may be unable to complete or operate our projects on a profitable basis or as we have committed to our customers. Development, installation and construction of energy efficiency and renewable energy projects, and operation of renewable energy projects, entails many risks, including: Failure to receive critical components and equipment that meet our design specifications and can be delivered on schedule; failure to obtain all necessary rights to land access and use; failure to receive quality and timely performance of third-party services; increases in the cost of labor, equipment and commodities needed to construct or operate projects; permitting and other regulatory issues, license revocation and changes in legal requirements; shortages of equipment or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering problems; failure of a customer to accept or pay for renewable energy that we supply; weather interferences, catastrophic events including fires, explosions, earthquakes, droughts and acts of terrorism; and accidents involving personal injury or the loss of life; labor disputes and work stoppages; mishandling of hazardous substances and waste; and other events outside of our control. 34 Any of these factors could give rise to construction delays and construction and other costs in excess of our expectations. This could prevent us from completing construction of projects, cause defaults under financing agreements or under contracts that require completion of project construction by a certain time, cause projects to be unprofitable for us, or otherwise impair our business, financial condition and operating results. Provisions in government contracts may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. In the event that we are able to secure contracts with the federal government and its agencies, and with state and local governments, these contracts customarily contain provisions that give the government substantial rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including provisions that allow the government to: Terminate existing contracts, in whole or in part, for any reason or no reason; reduce or modify contracts or subcontracts; decline to award future contracts if actual or apparent organizational conflicts of interest are discovered, or to impose organizational conflict mitigation measures as a condition of eligibility for an award; suspend or debar the contractor from doing business with the government or a specific government agency; and pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act, False Statements Act and similar remedy provisions unique to government contracting. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting unilateral termination or modification, in whole or in part, at the government’s convenience. Under general principles of government contracting law, if the government terminates a contract for convenience, the terminated company may recover only its incurred or committed costs, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to the termination. If the government terminates a contract for default, the defaulting company is entitled to recover costs incurred and associated profits on accepted items only and may be liable for excess costs incurred by the government in procuring undelivered items from another source. The termination payment is designed to compensate us for the cost of construction plus financing costs and profit on the work completed. In ESPCs for governmental entities, the methodologies for computing energy savings may be less favorable than for non-governmental customers and may be modified during the contract period. In the event we enter into ESPCs, we may be liable for price reductions if the projected savings cannot be substantiated. In addition to the right of the federal government to terminate its contracts with us, federal government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing approval by Congress of the necessary spending to honor such contracts. Congress often appropriates funds for a program on a September 30 fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the beginning of many major governmental programs, contracts often may not be fully funded, and additional monies are then committed to the contract only if, as and when appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. If one or more of our government contracts were terminated or reduced, or if appropriations for the funding of one or more of our contracts is delayed or terminated, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Government contracts normally contain additional terms and conditions that may increase our costs of doing business, reduce our profits and expose us to liability for failure to comply with these terms and conditions. These include, for example: Specialized accounting systems unique to government contracting, which may include mandatory compliance with federal Cost Accounting Standards; mandatory financial audits and potential liability for adjustments in contract prices; public disclosure of contracts, which may include pricing information; mandatory socioeconomic compliance requirements, including small business promotion, labor, environmental and U.S. manufacturing requirements; and requirements for maintaining current facility and/or personnel security clearances to access certain government facilities or to maintain certain records, and related industrial security compliance requirements. 35 Insurance and contractual protections may not always cover lost revenue, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments. Although we maintain insurance and intend to obtain warranties from suppliers, obligate subcontractors to meet certain performance levels and attempt, where feasible, to pass risks we cannot control to our customers, the proceeds of such insurance, warranties, performance guarantees or risk sharing arrangements may not be adequate to cover lost revenue, increased expenses or liquidated damages payments that may be required in the future. If the cost of energy generated by traditional sources does not increase, or if it decreases, demand for our services may decline. Decreases in the costs associated with traditional sources of energy, such as prices for commodities like coal, oil and natural gas, or electricity may reduce demand for energy efficiency and renewable energy solutions. Technological progress in traditional forms of electricity generation or the discovery of large new deposits of traditional fuels or international political developments, production and distribution policies of OPEC could reduce the cost of electricity generated from those sources and as a consequence reduce the demand for our solutions. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our activities and operations are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations, and if we violate such regulations, we could face penalties and fines. We are subject to numerous health and safety laws and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which we will operate. These laws and regulations require us to obtain and maintain permits and approvals and implement health and safety programs and procedures to control risks associated with our projects. Compliance with those laws and regulations can require us to incur substantial costs. Moreover, if our compliance programs are not successful, we could be subject to penalties or to revocation of our permits, which may require us to curtail or cease operations of the affected projects. Violations of laws, regulations and permit requirements may also result in criminal sanctions or injunctions. Health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements may change or become more stringent. Any such changes could require us to incur materially higher costs than we currently have. Our costs of complying with current and future health and safety laws, regulations and permit requirements, and any liabilities, fines or other sanctions resulting from violations of them, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our credit facilities and debt instruments contain financial and operating restrictions that may limit our business activities and our access to credit. The Company and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries entered into a Credit Agreement, dated as of January 31, 2013 (the “Credit Agreement”) and effective February 22, 2013, with TCA Global Credit Master Fund, LP (the “Lender”). The material terms of the Credit Agreement are as follows: The lender would provide a credit facility of up to $10,000,000 to Blue Earth, secured by a first priority security interest in all of the assets of Blue Earth. The initial tranche of the loan would be in the amount of $1,500,000 (the “Initial Loan Draw”) and any additional requests for an increase in the revolving credit amount would be subject to the Lender’s approval. In connection with Initial Loan Draw, Blue Earth paid the Lender, among other things, $100,000 payable in common stock of Blue Earth, Inc. The Initial Loan Draw was repaid in full in accordance with the Lock Box Agreement that was entered into in conjunction with the Credit Agreement. 36 Subsequently, Blue Earth and the Lender entered into the First Amendment to the Credit Agreement, dated as of September 11, 2013 (the “First Amendment”). The material terms of the First Amendment are as follows: The Lender agreed to increase the revolving credit facility amount to $4,000,000, of which $2,500,000 would be funded to Blue Earth (the “Second Loan Draw”), subject to the conditions of the First Amendment described below. The Second Loan Draw was comprised of two tranches with the initial tranche of $1,500,000 being funded upon the execution and delivery of the First Amendment at an interest rate of 12% per annum. The second tranche would be funded upon the Lender’s approval of certain transaction documents by and among Blue Earth, Inc., New Generation Power, LLC (“NGP”) and Talesun Solar USA, Ltd. (“Talesun”). To date the second tranche has not been funded. In connection with the Second Loan Draw, Blue Earth paid the Lender $100,000 payable in common stock of Blue Earth, Inc. The repayment of the Second Loan Draw would be paid via the existing Lock Box Agreement described above. Pursuant to the credit agreement, all of the Company’s and our subsidiaries’ assets, other than excluded and future projects are secured with our senior lender. Provisions in our credit facilities and debt instruments impose restrictions on our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: Incur additional debt; pay cash dividends and make distributions; make certain investments and acquisitions; guarantee the indebtedness of others or our subsidiaries; redeem or repurchase capital stock; create liens or encumbrances; enter into transactions with affiliates; engage in new lines of business; sell, lease or transfer certain parts of our business or property; incur any obligations for capital expenditures of $100,000 for any single transaction or $200,000 in any fiscal year for existing projects; issue any additional capital stock of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company; and merge or consolidate. These agreements also contain other customary covenants, including covenants that require us to meet specified financial ratios and financial tests. We may not be able to comply with these covenants in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants may result in the declaration of an event of default and cause us to be unable to borrow under our credit facilities and debt instruments. In addition to preventing additional borrowings under these agreements, an event of default, if not cured or waived, may result in the acceleration of the maturity of indebtedness outstanding under these agreements, which would require us to pay all amounts outstanding. If an event of default occurs, we may not be able to cure it within any applicable cure period, if at all. If the maturity of our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available for repayment or we may not have the ability to borrow or obtain sufficient funds to replace the accelerated indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If our subsidiaries default on their obligations under their debt instruments, we may need to make payments to lenders to prevent foreclosure on the collateral securing the debt. We have formed subsidiaries to own and operate acquired companies. These subsidiaries may incur various types of debt. This debt may be structured as non-recourse debt, which means it is repayable solely from the revenue of the subsidiary and is secured by such subsidiary’s assets, and a pledge of our equity interests in such subsidiary. Although subsidiary debt is typically non-recourse to the Company, if a subsidiary of ours defaults on such obligations, then we may from time to time determine to provide financial support to the subsidiary in order to avoid the adverse consequences of a default. In the event a subsidiary defaults on its indebtedness, its creditors may foreclose on the collateral securing the indebtedness, which may result in our losing our ownership interest in the subsidiary. The loss of our ownership interest in a subsidiary or some or all of a subsidiary’s assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 37 Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations, and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the U.S. and elsewhere around the world. Concerns over energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and the real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and a global recession. Domestic and international equity markets have been experiencing heightened volatility and turmoil. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse effect on our business. In the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. We may be exposed to product liability risks. The Company’s operations may expose it to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the sale of energy efficiency products. There can be no assurance that product liability claims will not be asserted against the Company. We plan to have product liability insurance covering sales of any prospective products, which we believe will be adequate to cover any product liability exposure we may have. However, product liability insurance is expensive and we may be unable to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at a reasonable cost to protect us against losses. An individual may bring a product liability claim against us if one of our products causes, or is claimed to have caused, an injury or is found to be unsuitable for consumer use. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in: Liabilities that substantially exceed our product liability insurance, which we would then be required to pay from other sources, if available; an increase of our product liability insurance rates or the inability to maintain insurance coverage in the future on acceptable terms, or at all; damage to our reputation and the reputation of our products, resulting in lower sales; regulatory investigations that could require costly recalls or product modifications; litigation costs; and the diversion of management’s attention from managing our business. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against the Company could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be sued by third parties who claim that our prospective products infringe on their intellectual property rights. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our prospective products or activities infringe on the intellectual property rights of others or that the we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. Any litigation or claims against the Company, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial and managerial resources, and could harm the Company’s reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company or cause us to curtail or cease its operations: The sale of a product material to our future operations; or obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which could also be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms. 38 We may be subject to damages resulting from claims that the Company or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers. Upon completion of any acquisitions by the Company, we may be subject to claims that our acquired companies and their employees may have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of former employers or competitors. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying money claims, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could hamper or prevent our ability to commercialize certain products, which could severely harm our business. Rapid technological change could make any products that the Company sells obsolete. Energy efficiency technologies have undergone rapid and significant change and the Company expects that they will continue to do so. Any products or technologies that we may acquire may become obsolete or uneconomical before the Company recovers the purchase price incurred in connection with their acquisition. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention, which may divert from our business operations. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), and The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition, proxy statement, and other information. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2012, were not effective in ensuring that material information we are required to disclose in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. During the year ended December 31, 2013 we hired additional financial reporting, internal controls and other financial personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. Specifically, we added a CFO and controller and developed appropriate policies and procedures which added to our general and administrative expenses. During 2013 our management performed an assessment of our internal controls and determined that our internal controls became effective during the quarter ended September 30, 2013. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a public company. However, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. In addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. We anticipate that these costs will materially increase our selling, general and administrative expenses. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies. If we are unable to comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, then we may not be able to obtain the independent account certifications required by that act, which may preclude us from keeping our filings with the SEC current, and interfere with the ability of investors to trade our securities and our shares to continue to be quoted on the OTC QB or our ability to list our shares on any national securities exchange. 39 If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. Any inability to report and file our financial results accurately and timely could harm our reputation and adversely impact the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, we may not be able to manage our business as effectively as we would if an effective control environment existed, and our business and reputation with investors may be harmed. With each prospective acquisition we may make we will conduct whatever due diligence is necessary or prudent to assure us that the acquisition target can comply with the internal controls requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Notwithstanding our diligence, certain internal controls deficiencies may not be detected. As a result, any internal control deficiencies may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and access to capital. Risks Related to our Securities Public company compliance may make it more difficult to attract and retain officers and directors. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules implemented by the SEC have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. As a public company, these rules and regulations increase our compliance costs and make certain activities more time consuming and costly. As a public company, these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to maintain our director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers, and to maintain insurance at reasonable rates, or at all. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could fluctuate widely in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · Our ability to execute our business plan and complete prospective acquisitions; changes in our industry; competitive pricing pressures; our ability to obtain working capital financing; additions or departures of key personnel; · limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our common stock; sales of our common stock (particularly following effectiveness of this resale registration statement); operating results that fall below expectations; regulatory developments; · economic and other external factors; period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and our inability to develop or acquire new or needed technologies. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 40 We have not paid cash dividends in the past and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends on our common stock will depend on earnings, financial condition and other business and economic factors affecting us at the time as our board of directors may consider relevant. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on your investment will only occur if our stock price increases. The Board of Directors set December 31, 2010 as the record date to distribute one Series A Warrant for every two shares held of record by each shareholder on such date as a result of the spin-off of Genesis Fluid Solutions. While this warrant distribution is similar to a dividend as no investment decision is necessary on the part of stockholders, it is not a dividend. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded, the price may not reflect our value, and there can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. Our shares of common stock are thinly traded, our common stock is available to be traded and is held by a small number of holders, and the price may not reflect our actual or perceived value. There can be no assurance that there will be an active market for our shares of common stock either now or in the future. The market liquidity will be dependent on the perception of our operating business, among other things. We will take certain steps including utilizing investor awareness campaigns and firms, press releases, road shows and conferences to increase awareness of our business, and any steps that we might take to bring us to the awareness of investors may require we compensate consultants with cash and/or stock. There can be no assurance that there will be any awareness generated or the results of any efforts will result in any impact on our trading volume. Consequently, investors may not be able to liquidate their investment or liquidate it at a price that reflects the value of the business, and trading may be at an inflated price relative to the performance of the Company due to, among other things, availability of sellers of our shares. If an active market should develop, the price may be highly volatile. Because there is currently a low price for our shares of common stock, many brokerage firms or clearing firms are not willing to effect transactions in the securities or accept our shares for deposit in an account. Many lending institutions will not permit the use of low priced shares of common stock as collateral for any loans. Furthermore, our securities are traded on the OTC QB where it is more difficult (1) to obtain accurate quotations, (2) to obtain coverage for significant news events because major wire services generally do not publish press releases about these companies, and (3) to obtain needed capital. Our common stock may be deemed a “penny stock,” which would make it more difficult for our investors to sell their shares. Our common stock is currently subject to the “penny stock” rules adopted under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. The penny stock rules generally apply to companies whose common stock is not listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or another national securities exchange and trades at less than $4.00 per share, other than companies that have had average revenues of at least $6,000,000 for the last three years or that have tangible net worth of at least $5,000,000 ($2,000,000 if the company has been operating for three or more years). These rules require, among other things, that brokers who trade penny stock to persons other than “established customers” complete certain documentation, make suitability inquiries of investors and provide investors with certain information concerning trading in the security, including a risk disclosure document and quote information under certain circumstances. Many brokers have decided not to trade penny stocks because of the requirements of the penny stock rules and, as a result, the number of broker-dealers willing to act as market makers in these securities is limited. If we remain subject to the penny stock rules for any significant period, it could have an adverse effect on the market, if any, for our securities. If our securities are subject to the penny stock rules, investors will find it more difficult to dispose of our securities. 41 Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including shares issuable upon the effectiveness of a registration statement, upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144, or shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or warrants, it could create a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and, in anticipation of which, the market price of our common stock could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make more difficult our ability to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. On May 2, 2013, the post-effective amendment to our registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-181420) was declared effective by the SEC. An aggregate of 22,083,756 shares of Common Stock including 4,029,154 shares which have already been issued upon exercise of warrants were registered for resale under such registration statement. In addition, the 1,065,000 shares of common stock issued in the 2009 Merger to the former directors and the 6,872,500 shares of common stock issued in our 2009 Private Placement which are currently issued and outstanding, as well as other shares which were prohibited from being sold for a period of 12 months from when the Company lost its former shell status which ended in November, 2010 are all available for resale. In general, a non-affiliated person who has held restricted shares for a period of six months, under Rule 144, may sell into the market our common stock all of their shares, subject to the Company being current in its periodic reports filed with the SEC. An affiliate may sell an amount equal to the greater of 1% of the outstanding shares or, if listed on Nasdaq or another national securities exchange, the average weekly number of shares sold in the last four weeks prior to such sale. Such sales may be repeated once every three months, and any of the restricted shares may be sold by a non-affiliate without any restriction after they have been held one year. Because our directors and officers are among our largest stockholders, they can exert significant control over our business and affairs and have actual or potential interests that may depart from those of our other stockholders. Our directors and executive officers and/or their affiliates beneficially own or control approximately 20% of the issued and outstanding common stock and a larger percentage on a fully diluted basis. In addition, the holdings of our directors and executive officers may increase in the future upon vesting or other maturation of exercise rights under any of the options or warrants they may hold or in the future be granted or if they otherwise acquire additional shares of our common stock. As a result, in addition to their board seats and offices, such persons will have significant influence over and control all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, irrespective of how the Company’s other stockholders, may vote, including the following actions: To elect or defeat the election of our directors; to amend or prevent amendment of our Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws; to effect or prevent a merger, sale of substantially all assets or other corporate transaction; and to control the outcome of any other matter submitted to our stockholders for vote. In addition, these persons’ stock ownership may discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could reduce our stock price or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over our stock price. 42 Exercise of options and warrants and conversion of preferred stock may have a dilutive effect on our common stock. If the price per share of our common stock at the time of exercise of any warrants, options, or any other convertible securities is in excess of the various exercise or conversion prices of these convertible securities, exercise or conversion of these convertible securities would have a dilutive effect on our common stock. The Company has no plans to issue additional warrants exercisable at $0.01 per share or otherwise below market; however reserves the right to do so when it is deemed to be in the best interest of the Company and its Shareholders. As of February 1, 2014, we had outstanding options, warrants and reserved derivative securities, which if exercised would result in the issuance of 30,749,542 shares of Common Stock, consisting (i) outstanding incentive stock options to purchase 2,315,209 shares of our common stock; (ii) warrants issued to Management, consultants and vendors to purchase an aggregate of 17,983,333 shares of common stock, including approximately 6,152,000 warrants exercisable at $0.01 per share; (iii) 740,000 shares of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding convertible into 7,400,000 shares of Common Stock; (iv) placement agent warrants to purchase 218,846 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.75 per share and 57,500 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $1.25 per share; (v) Class A Warrants to purchase 4,517,500 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.00 per share issued in our Series C Preferred Stock Offering; (vi) Class B Warrants to purchase 4,029,154 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $6.00 per share; and (vii) 888,000 shares of Common Stock issuable upon payment of dividends on Preferred Stock. Upon exercise of the outstanding 4,517,500 Class A Warrants, warrant holders will receive 4,517,500 Class B Warrants when combined with the outstanding 4,029,154 Class B Warrants are exercisable for an aggregate of 8,546,654 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $6.00 per share. Upon exercise of the outstanding Class B Warrants, warrant holders will receive 8,546,654 Class C Warrants to purchase 8,546,654 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $12.00 per share. Therefore, an additional 17,093,308 shares of Common Stock are issuable upon full exercise of the Series B and Class C Warrants. The Class B and C Warrants have not been registered for resale under this Registration Statement. Further, any additional financing that we secure may require the granting of rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our common stock and which result in additional dilution of the existing ownership interests of our common stockholders. Automatic Conversion of Preferred Stock Each of the 740,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock not previously converted as of February 1, 2014 by the holder shall be automatically converted by the Company at $1.00 per share upon the first to occur: (i) the fourth anniversary date of the issuance of the Preferred, or (ii) the closing price of the Common Stock trades at least $2.18 per share for 60 consecutive calendar days, provided there is an effective registration statement. In July 2013, the Company automatically converted the remaining Shares of Series A and Series B Preferred Stock when the Common Stock traded above $2.25 and $2.20 per share, respectively, for 60 consecutive calendar days. The Company will continue to pay dividends in Common Stock up until the date of conversion. The shares issuable upon conversion, including accrued interest, shares will be registered with the SEC. However, there will be dilution to Common Stockholders from the conversion of the Preferred Stock. In addition, conversions to date, as well as upon automatic conversion by the Company may cause significant downward pressure on the price of our Common Stock as holders who converted from Preferred Stock resell their Common Stock in the open market Redemption of Class A warrants. The Company may redeem each of the issued and outstanding Series A, B and C Warrants at $.001 per warrant on 20 days’ prior written notice. On October 7, 2013, the Company issued a notice of redemption for an aggregate of 8,832,126 Class A Warrants included in the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-181420). An aggregate of 4,029,154 Class A Warrants were exercised by holders and Standby Purchasers and the balance were redeemed. 43 The Company has the option to redeem the remaining 4,517,500 Class A Warrants registered under a pending registration statement which have been extended until March 31, 2014, without further compensation to the holder other than the payment of the redemption price per warrant: (a) to cause any or all of the warrants which are not properly exercised on or before the redemption date to be assigned to one or more third parties (each, a “Standby Purchaser”), effectively immediately upon the redemption date, for the consideration equal to $.001 per non-exercised warrant payable to the Company, (b) each Standby Purchaser shall have the right to exercise the non-exercised warrants so assigned to such Standby Purchaser through the redemption date; and (c) any Standby Purchaser may be deemed to be an underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act. Redemption of the warrants could force the holders to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so, sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants, or to accept the redemption price, which is substantially less than the market value of the warrants at the time of redemption. In addition, if the warrants are exercised in response to a redemption notice, then dilution could occur from the widespread conversion or exercise of the warrants. Further, this may cause significant downward pressure on the price of our Common Stock as holders that elect to convert or exercise their securities may be able to resell the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion or exercise of the warrants in the open market. Because we became public by means of a reverse merger, we may not be able to attract the attention of major brokerage firms. There may be risks associated with us becoming public through a “reverse merger.” Securities analysts of major brokerage firms may not provide coverage of us since there is no incentive to brokerage firms to recommend the purchase of our common stock. No assurance can be given that brokerage firms will, in the future, want to conduct any offerings on behalf of our company. Our certificate of incorporation allows for our board of directors to create new series of preferred stock without further approval by our stockholders, which could act as an anti-takeover device. Our board of directors has the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred stock. On September 28, 2011, the board of directors had authorized the issuance of up to 300,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock convertible on a ten for one basis into common stock and 297,067 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were issued, all of which were converted. On March 30, 2012, our Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to 300,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock convertible on a ten for one basis into Common Stock and 283,052 shares of Series B Preferred Stock were issued, all of which was converted. On March 28, 2013, our Board of Directors authorized the issuance of up to 500,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock convertible on a ten for one basis into Common Stock and subsequently amended our Certificate of Incorporation to provide for 910,000 shares and 903,500 shares of Series C Preferred Stock were issued, 163,500 of which were converted as of February 1, 2014. Our board of directors also has the authority to issue preferred stock without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of series of preferred stock that would grant to holders the preferred right to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividend payments before dividends are distributed to the holders of common stock and the right to the redemption of the shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of our common stock. In addition, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of series of preferred stock that have greater voting power than our common stock or that are convertible into our common stock, which could decrease the relative voting power of our common stock or result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Unless the nature of a particular transaction and applicable statute require such approval, the Board of Directors has the authority to issue these shares without stockholder approval subject to approval of the holders of our preferred stock. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company without any further action by the stockholders. 44 Provisions in our charter documents and Nevada law could discourage or prevent a takeover, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, as well as provisions of Nevada law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: Authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and thwart a takeover attempt; prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; and advance notice provisions in connection with stockholder proposals that may prevent or hinder any attempt by our stockholders to bring business to be considered by our stockholders at a meeting or replace our board of directors. 