ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSYou should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. If any of the events addressed in these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and you should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.Cyclical fluctuations in the primary aluminum industry cause variability in our earnings and cash flows.Our operating results depend substantially on the market for primary aluminum, a cyclical commodity whose prices have historically been volatile, as illustrated in the chart below:Primary aluminum prices are subject to regional and global market supply and demand and other related factors. Such factors include production activities by competitors, production costs in major production regions, economic conditions, interest rates, non-market political pressures, speculative activities by market participants and currency exchange rates. Extended periods of industry overcapacity may result in a weak pricing environment and margin compression for aluminum producers, including Noranda.Our significant cost components, specifically our supply of alumina, which we provide internally, and our New Madrid power contracts are not tied to the LME aluminum price. As a result, as the LME aluminum price decreases, absent corresponding decreases in our raw material costs or productivity gains, our profit margins may suffer, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Although we have, at times, hedged our exposure to the volatility of LME aluminum prices, we currently have no such hedges in place. We are under no obligation under our debt agreements or otherwise to enter into further hedging arrangements. If we do not undertake further hedging activities, we will continue to have price risk with respect to our primary aluminum shipments. A prolonged downturn in prices for primary aluminum products could significantly reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies. In addition, we may enter into new hedging arrangements in the future, which may not be beneficial, depending on subsequent LME aluminum price changes, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk."A downturn in general economic conditions, as well as a downturn in the end-use markets for certain of our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Historically, demand for primary aluminum has been highly correlated to general economic and market conditions in the United States and other major global economies, including China. A sustained decline in either the United States or the global primary aluminum market would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The substantial majority of our products are delivered to destinations in the United States. However, adverse changes in economic conditions in regions outside the United States, such as those resulting from the European sovereign debt crisis, may have a negative impact on demand for our products. Such negative impacts may include, among others, lower LME aluminum prices, which are set globally, increased competition due to excess supply or demand for our customers' products. In addition, certain end-use markets for our 14rolled products, such as the housing, construction and transportation industries, experience demand cycles that typically are correlated to the general economic environment. Economic downturns in regional and global economies or a decrease in manufacturing activity in industries such as construction, packaging and consumer goods, all of which are sensitive to a number of factors outside our control, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of electrical power could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We are subject to losses associated with equipment shutdowns, which may be caused by the loss or interruption of electrical power to our facilities due to unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum. Any loss of power that causes an equipment shutdown can result in the hardening or "freezing" of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced. If this occurs, we may experience significant losses if the pots are damaged and require repair or replacement, a process that could limit or shut down our production operations for a prolonged period of time. We may ultimately experience shorter pot lives or higher failure rates as a result of damage from an equipment shutdown resulting from a smelter power outage, which most recently occurred in January 2009.Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses we may incur if our electric power suppliers are unable to provide us with power during periods of unusually high demand.Aluminum prices could decrease due to proposed London Metal Exchange warehousing rules The London Metal Exchange ("LME") has approved new requirements effective in 2014 to require metal warehouses, under certain conditions, to deliver out more aluminum than they take in. Increasing the aluminum supply in the market may decrease the LME aluminum price and Midwest premium. A prolonged downturn in primary aluminum prices and Midwest premiums could significantly reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies. Absent corresponding decreases in our raw material costs or productivity gains, our profit margins may suffer, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy and our profitability may decline if energy costs rise.Electricity and natural gas are essential to our businesses, which are energy intensive. The costs of these resources can vary widely and unpredictably. The factors that affect our energy costs tend to be specific to each of our facilities.ElectricityElectricity is the largest cost component at our New Madrid smelter and is a key factor to our long-term competitive position in the primary aluminum business. We have a long-term power supply agreement with Ameren, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase substantially all the electricity required at New Madrid. The power supply contract provides that the rate for power will be established by the MoPSC based on two components: a base rate and a fuel adjustment charge. The MoPSC determines whether to make changes to the base rate and fuel adjustment charge. Ameren may increase the rates it charges its customers, including Noranda, subject to the approval of the MoPSC. Once a rate case is commenced by the filing of a rate increase request, the MoPSC has eleven months to issue its ruling on the request. Over the past five years, Ameren has filed four rate cases with the MoPSC. The outcome of any future rate cases Ameren may initiate could materially and adversely affect the competitiveness and long-term viability of our smelter as well as our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition to base rate adjustments, our electric power costs are subject to a fuel adjustment clause, under which additional charges may be incurred, based on Ameren’s fuel costs and off-system sales volume and prices. The fuel adjustment clause resulted in additional fuel charges recorded in cost of goods sold of $17.9 million, $9.0 million and $14.7 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The impact of the fuel adjustment clause may have a dramatic and unpredictable effect on our future operating results. On February 13, 2014, we filed a petition with the MoPSC to change the rate design for Ameren customers in Missouri. Under the proposed ten-year rate structure, New Madrid’s base power rate would be reduced to an initial rate of $30 per megawatt hour. Further, New Madrid would not be subject to fuel adjustment charges, but would share in future base power rate increases granted to Ameren Missouri by the MoPSC, subject to a two percent cap for each general rate case. Compared to New Madrid’s 2013 electricity rates, the rate change would have reduced our Net Cash Cost by over 8 cents per pound. The MoPSC has complete discretion to decide the schedule for consideration of the filing or not to consider it at all. With the support of various consumer groups, we have requested that the MoPSC approve the reduced rate on an expedited basis with an effective date of August 1, 2014.Electricity is also a key cost component at our rolling mill facilities. Electricity is purchased through medium term contracts at industrial rates from regional utilities supplied through local distributors. If we are unable to obtain power at affordable rates upon expiration of these contracts, we may be forced to curtail or idle a portion of our production capacity, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.15Natural gasNatural gas is the largest cost component at our Gramercy refinery and a key cost component at our rolling mill facilities. Our Gramercy refinery has a contract to guarantee secure supply at a price on the Henry Hub Index natural gas price. Our downstream business purchases natural gas on the open market. The price of natural gas can be particularly volatile as supply and demand are affected by unpredictable weather and other factors. During early 2014, inclement weather has driven the Henry Hub Index natural gas price to an average of over $5.00 per million BTU compared to average natural gas prices of $3.73 per million BTU in 2013, $2.75 in 2012 and $4.00 in 2011. As a result, our natural gas costs may fluctuate dramatically, and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher natural gas costs on our cost of sales. Any substantial increases in natural gas costs could cause our operating costs to increase and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have, from time to time, entered into forward swaps to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in natural gas prices. Since January 1, 2013, we have not been a party to any forward swaps for natural gas.FuelFuel is a substantial component of the cost structure at our St. Ann bauxite mining operation. Our fuel costs at St. Ann may fluctuate based on the price of oil and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher fuel costs. Any increases in fuel costs could cause our operating costs to increase and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may encounter increases in the cost of raw materials, which could cause our cost of goods sold to increase, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and limiting our operating flexibility.In the production of our products, we require substantial amounts of purchased raw materials, including carbon products and caustic soda. Pricing volatility of purchased raw materials can have a significant impact on our costs. If raw material prices increase, we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of the increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of the increases through productivity improvements, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.If the cost of alumina produced by the Gramercy refinery or the cost of bauxite produced by the St. Ann mining operation exceeds the spot prices of alumina or bauxite available from other sources, we may not be able to immediately decrease production in response to changes in market forces. Therefore, our unit costs will increase and our ability to fully recover fixed costs will be limited. We may be forced to sell excess alumina or bauxite at market prices that could be substantially lower than our cost to produce them, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.During 2013, we sold approximately 36% of the bauxite from St. Ann to Sherwin Alumina Company pursuant to a contract that ran through 2017. In December 2013, we amended the contract with Sherwin Alumina Company to extend through 2018. Margins from these sales effectively reduce the net cost of bauxite to Gramercy. In the event Sherwin Alumina Company is unable to honor that contract, or chooses not to extend the contract upon expiration, the net cost of our bauxite could increase, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Prices for the raw materials used by our downstream business, including primary aluminum, recycled aluminum and alloying elements, are subject to continuous volatility and may increase from time to time. Our sales are generally made on the basis of a "margin over metal price," but if raw material costs other than metal increase, we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of the increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of high raw materials costs through productivity improvements, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, a sustained material increase in raw materials prices may cause some of our customers to substitute other materials for our products.We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate.We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. We compete with a number of large, well-established companies in each of the markets in which we operate. Our Primary Aluminum segment competes with a large number of other value-added metals producers on an international, national, regional and local basis. We also compete, to a much lesser extent, with primary metals producers, who typically sell to very large customers requiring regular shipments of large volumes of metals. Our Flat-Rolled Products segment competes in the production and sale of rolled aluminum products with a number of other aluminum rolling mills. Aluminum also competes with other materials, such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications. In the past, customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum in certain applications. In both our Primary Aluminum and Flat-Rolled Products businesses, some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and technical resources than we do. These larger competitors may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions.Similarly, competitors with superior cost positions to ours, particularly those competitors that operate smelters with access to relatively lower raw material, electric power or other production costs, may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. In the event that the current competitive smelter cost landscape changes such that other smelters see stability or reductions in their major production costs and/or we see increases in ours, the long-term viability of our smelter could be compromised. A current or new competitor may also add or build new capacity or increase import activity into the United States, which 16could diminish our profitability. New competitors could emerge from within North America or globally. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.In addition, our Flat-Rolled Products segment competes with other rolled products suppliers, principally multi-purpose mills, on the basis of quality, price, timeliness of delivery, technological innovation and customer service. One primary competitive factor, particularly in the flat-rolled business, is price. We may be required in the future to reduce fabrication prices or shift our production to products that generally yield lower fabrication prices in order to remain at full productive capacity, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, technological innovation is important to our customers, and if we are unable to lead or effectively meet our competitors' new innovations to address our customers’ needs, our financial performance could be materially and adversely impacted. Increased competition in any of our businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Aluminum may become less competitive with alternative materials, which could reduce our share of industry sales, lower our selling prices and reduce our sales volumes.Aluminum competes with other materials such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass for various applications. Higher aluminum prices relative to substitute materials tend to make aluminum products less competitive with these alternative materials. The willingness of customers to accept aluminum substitutes, or the ability of large customers to exert leverage in the marketplace to affect pricing for fabricated aluminum products, could result in a reduced share of industry sales or reduced prices for our products and services, which could decrease revenues or reduce volumes, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.If we were to lose order volumes from any of our largest customers, our revenues and cash flows could be materially reduced.Our business is exposed to risks related to customer concentration. In 2013, our ten largest customers were responsible for approximately 37% of our consolidated revenues. In 2013, one customer accounted for approximately 7% of our consolidated revenues. A loss of order volumes from, or a loss of industry share by, any major customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. In addition, our customers may become involved in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or default on their obligations to us.We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with a significant majority of our customers, and our revenues and cash flows could be reduced if our customers decide to use other suppliers.A majority of our customer contracts have a term of one year or less. Many of our customers purchase products and services from us on a purchase order basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products and services. The loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could have a material and adverse impact on our sales volume and business, or cause us to reduce our prices, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill.Our operations are capital intensive. Our capital expenditures were $72.7 million, $87.9 million and $64.6 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.We may not generate sufficient operating cash flows, and sufficient external financing sources may not be available to enable us to make required capital expenditures, service or refinance our indebtedness, pay dividends and fund other liquidity needs. Our inability to make upgrades or purchase new plant and equipment could result in higher maintenance costs, lower sales volumes due to the impact of reduced product quality and other competitive detriments, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.We may be materially and adversely affected by environmental, safety, production and product regulations or concerns.Our operations are subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to waters, generation, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, land reclamation and employee health and safety. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can be costly, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs, including capital expenditures, to comply with these requirements. Additionally, certain of our raw material suppliers may be subject to significant environmental compliance costs, which they may pass through to us. As these direct or indirect regulatory costs increase and are passed through to our customers, our products may become less competitive than other materials, which could reduce our sales. If we are unable to comply with environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and civil or criminal sanctions, or costs associated with upgrades to our facilities or changes in our manufacturing processes in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, environmental requirements change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot predict what environmental laws or regulations will be enacted or amended in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced, or the amount of future expenditures that may be required to comply with such laws or regulations. Our costs of compliance with current and future environmental requirements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.17The Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has developed National Ambient Air Quality Standards ("NAAQS") for six compounds currently identified as criteria pollutants. The NAAQS establishes acceptable ambient air levels of each pollutant based on a review of their effects on human health and the environment. Sulfur dioxide ("SO2"), an emission from our New Madrid smelter facility, is one such criteria pollutant. To determine our smelter's compliance with NAAQS, we measure emissions using currently acceptable methods. In 2010, the EPA issued regulations that increased the stringency of the SO2 NAAQS. Federal and state regulators are in the process of developing measurement methods and time-lines that will govern the implementation of those regulations. Once finalized, these implementation requirements may present material implications for our smelter's compliance with NAAQS. Failure to meet NAAQS may require us to incur material capital and operational costs to bring our smelter into compliance and could have negative implications for permits necessary to support increases in production volumes at our smelter.In addition, as an owner and operator of real property and a generator of hazardous waste, we may be subject to environmental cleanup liability, regardless of fault, pursuant to Superfund or analogous state or non-U.S. laws. Thus, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs and costs arising from third-party property damage or personal injury claims, relating to environmental contamination at properties currently or formerly operated by us or at third-party sites at which wastes from our operations have been disposed. Contaminants have been discovered in the soil and/or groundwater at some of our facilities. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, because we use or process hazardous substances in our operations, we may be liable for personal injury claims or workers’ compensation claims relating to exposure to hazardous substances.We have identified certain environmental matters, which are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements to the extent they represent liabilities as defined by U.S. GAAP. There could be other significant environmental issues of which we are not aware. The occurrence of new environmental issues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Climate change legislation or regulations may adversely impact our operations and markets.In several of our operations, we consume energy generated from fossil fuel sources such as coal, diesel and natural gas. A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory changes in response to a view that consumption of energy derived from fossil fuels is a contributor to global warming. Regulatory and legislative changes may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change legislation, regulation and international treaties and accords are uncertain. We may experience increased capital expenditures requirements in order to comply with revised or new legislation or regulations, increased insurance premiums and deductibles as new actuarial tables are developed to reshape coverage to favor carbon risk management, among other actions, a change in competitive position relative to industry peers and changes in the demand for the goods we produce, or increases to our raw material input costs.Some of our facilities are located in areas that have been subject to natural disasters. Future natural disasters in these areas could damage our facilities and disrupt our operations.Our aluminum smelter is located in New Madrid, Missouri on the banks of the Mississippi River and near the New Madrid fault line, in an area that may be subject to natural disasters such as floods, tornadoes, ice storms and earthquakes. When such a disaster occurs, it can damage the facility in question, or lead to interruptions in our power supply, which may disrupt our production of aluminum. Our bauxite mining operation is located in St. Ann, Jamaica and our alumina refinery is located in Gramercy, Louisiana, areas that may be exposed to hurricanes. In addition, our other facilities may be subject to natural disasters. We maintain insurance to protect us from events that may be caused by floods, earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes in amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance would be available on a timely basis or adequate to completely reimburse us for the losses that might be sustained or to provide funds for the reconstruction of our facilities, and in any event such insurance would not enable us to immediately reconstruct our facilities to avoid a suspension or disruption of our business while reconstruction proceeded to completion or alternative sourcing is located. In addition, any hedging arrangements could require us to deliver aluminum even if we are unable to produce such aluminum, which could cause us to incur unexpected costs in purchasing aluminum on the open market.Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions that may adversely affect our performance.The production of aluminum is subject to unplanned events such as accidents, supply interruptions, transportation interruptions, human error, mechanical failure, information system breakdowns and other contingencies. Operational malfunctions or interruptions at one or more of our facilities could cause substantial losses in our production capacity. As such events occur, we may experience substantial business loss and the need to purchase one of our integrated raw materials at prices substantially higher than our normal cost of production, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our vertical integration may cause operational malfunctions or interruptions at a facility in our upstream business to materially and adversely affect the performance or operation of the facilities further along our integrated production chain. Such interruptions may harm our reputation among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover 18certain events. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.We could experience labor disputes that disrupt our business.We are a party to seven collective bargaining agreements with five different unions. Our collective bargaining agreements are with the following unions:In the US: the United Steelworkers of America ("USWA"); and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers ("IAMAW"). At St. Ann, Jamaica: the University and Allied Workers Union ("UAWU"); the Union of Technical, Administrative and Supervisory Personnel ("UTASP"); and the Bustamante Industrial Trade Union ("BITU"). As customary in Jamaican labor practices, unions generally submit claims subsequent to the expiration of the collective bargaining agreements. Until a new agreement is ratified, we continue to operate under the terms of the expired agreement, and, once signed, the new agreement is retroactive to the previous expiration date.Labor negotiations for renewal of bargaining agreements may not conclude successfully and, in that case, may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor, or result in work stoppages or labor disturbances, disrupting our operations. Any such cost increases, stoppages or disturbances could materially limit plant production, sales volumes and profitability, in which case our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in foreign countries.We have production activities outside the United States via our bauxite mining operation in St. Ann, Jamaica. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our foreign operations. These risks include those associated with political or financial instability, expropriation, renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, and changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to taxation, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict and beyond our control, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition to the business risks inherent in operating outside the United States, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced.In addition, our revenues, expenses, cash flows and results of operations could be affected by matters in foreign countries that more generally affect the global market for primary aluminum products, including inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems. Our operations and the commercial markets for our products could also be materially and adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in countries engaged in the manufacture or consumption of aluminum products. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.The loss of certain members of our management may have an adverse effect on our operating results.Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and other key employees. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our senior officers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise.Past and future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition.As part of our strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in business combinations, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures.We maintain property, casualty and workers’ compensation insurance, but such insurance does not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental compliance or remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in our industries have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, 19and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. In addition, the 2009 power outage at our New Madrid smelter could have an impact on our ability in the future to obtain insurance at similar levels and costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows.Future changes to healthcare legislation could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We continue to update our healthcare plans to be in compliance with the Affordable Care Act. Provisions of the Affordable Care Act become effective at various dates over the next several years. Although the Affordable Care Act does not mandate that employers offer health insurance, beginning in 2015, penalties will be assessed on large employers who do not offer health insurance that meets certain affordability or benefit requirements. We do not anticipate a large increase in benefit enrollments due to our existing model of providing benefits to full time employees and our limited number of part time employees. We currently believe that the plan design changes required by the Affordable Care Act will not have a material impact on our costs in 2014, but Affordable Care Act fees including the PCORI and Transitional Reinsurance fees are now effective and implementing the requirements of the Affordable Care Act is likely to impose additional administrative costs. We are not currently able to determine the long term financial impact to our benefit plans, and future revisions and clarifications to the legislation and potential penalties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows.Apollo effectively controls us and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests.As of December 31, 2013, Apollo owned approximately 48.1% of our common stock. As long as Apollo owns more than 10% of our common stock, it will have the right to cause the Board to nominate a number of Apollo designees for the Board. Thus, Apollo has the ability to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions.The interests of Apollo could conflict with or differ from stockholder interests. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of Noranda or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that stockholders or debtholders may otherwise view favorably. If we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that in their judgment could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debt holders. Additionally, Apollo is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and holds, and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Apollo may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. A sale of a substantial number of shares of stock in the future by funds affiliated with Apollo could cause our stock price to decline.Risks Related to our IndebtednessWe have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from servicing our debt.As of December 31, 2013, our total indebtedness was $659.1 million. Based on the amount of indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2013 and the interest rates in effect on such date, our estimated cash interest expense is approximately $49.4 million, some of which represents interest expense on floating-rate obligations and is subject to increase in the event interest rates rise.Our subsidiaries’ ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on their and our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside their and our control. Our subsidiaries’ inability to generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy their and our debt obligations, or to refinance their and our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and could require us and our subsidiaries to do one or more of the following:•raise additional capital through debt or equity issuances or both;•cancel or scale back current and future business initiatives; or•sell businesses or properties.Our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness could have important consequences, including:•limiting our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes;•requiring our subsidiaries to dedicate a portion of their cash flow to payments on their and our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements;•increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our less leveraged competitors;•limiting our ability to respond to business opportunities; and20•subjecting us and our subsidiaries to restrictive covenants, which, if not complied with, could result in an event of default under their and our debt; if the default is not cured or waived, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Restrictive covenants under the indenture governing our AcquisitionCo Notes and our senior secured credit facilities may restrict and adversely affect our operational flexibility.The indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes and our senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that could impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things:•incur or guarantee additional debt;•pay dividends or make distributions to our shareholders;•repurchase or redeem capital stock;•make loans, acquisitions or investments;•sell assets including stock of subsidiaries;•create or incur liens;•merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets;•enter into transactions with our affiliates; and•engage in certain business activities.As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs.A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes or such future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The events of default contained in our existing indebtedness are customary for senior secured credit facilities and indentures of companies similar to the Company. Certain of such events of default, generally defaults based on volitional acts that violate prohibitions on our taking certain actions such as incurring debt or paying dividends beyond permitted amounts, are not subject to notice or cure periods. In the event of any default under the senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes or any future material indebtedness, our and our subsidiaries’ debt holders and lenders:•will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us and our subsidiaries;•could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable;•may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or•may prevent us and our subsidiaries from making debt service payments under our and our subsidiaries’ other agreements, any of which could result in an event of default under such agreements.See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Description of Certain Indebtedness," in Item 7 of this report.Despite our substantial indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could increase the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness.The indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes and our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, much of which could constitute secured or senior indebtedness. The more leveraged we and our subsidiaries become, the more we and our subsidiaries, and in turn our security holders, become exposed to the risks described above under the heading "We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from servicing our debt."Our variable-rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly.Certain of our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, are subject to variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Description of Certain Indebtedness," in Item 7 of this report. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase, even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. Although we may enter into interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so.21Based on the amount of indebtedness outstanding at December 31, 2013 and the interest rates in effect on such date, our estimated cash interest expense is approximately $49.4 million for 2014. A 1% increase in the interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by an estimated $4.8 million.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNot applicable.