ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In evaluating the Company, the factors described below should be considered carefully. The occurrence of one or more of these events could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Industry Changes in the price, supply or demand for natural gas could have an adverse impact on sales of our separation and filtration systems and products and our operating results. A large portion of our Process Products business is driven by the construction of natural gas infrastructure. Increased demand for natural gas may result in the construction of additional infrastructure. Higher prices of natural gas, while beneficial to exploration activities and the financing of new projects, can adversely impact the demand for natural gas. Excess supply could negatively impact the price of natural gas, which could discourage spending on related capital projects. 15 Table of Contents Changes in the power generation industry could have an adverse impact on sales of our environmental control systems and products and our operating results. The demand for our environmental control systems and products depends in part on the continued construction of new power generation and related facilities and the retrofitting of existing facilities. The power generation industry is cyclical and has experienced periods of slow or no growth. Any change in the power generation industry that results in a decrease in new construction or refurbishing of power plants, in particular natural gas facilities, could have a material adverse impact on our environmental systems segment’s revenue, cash flow and our results of operations. Changes in current environmental legislation and regulatory standards could have an adverse impact on the sale of our environmental control systems and products and on our operating results. Our Environmental Systems business is primarily driven by capital spending by our customers to comply with laws and regulations governing the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment or human health. These laws include U.S. federal statutes such as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the Clean Water Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Interstate Rule, the Utility and Boiler MACT Rules, the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule and the regulations implementing these statutes, as well as similar laws and regulations at state and local levels and in other countries. These U.S. laws and regulations may change and other countries may not adopt similar laws and regulations. Despite the EPA’s recent adoption of stricter pollution standards, the interplay between the judicial system and the EPA instills uncertainty. Our business may be adversely impacted by an unfavorable court ruling or to the extent that other regulations requiring the reduction of NOX emissions are repealed, amended, implementation dates delayed, or to the extent that regulatory authorities reduce enforcement due to a complicated legal, political and economic environment. We are subject to United States and foreign laws and regulations including export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. Implementing compliance with the requirements of any new or amended U.S. or foreign laws and regulations as well as failure to comply with any laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and our strategic objectives. As a result of our global operations, we face a variety of special United States and international legal and compliance risks, in addition to the risks of our domestic business. These federal, state and local laws, regulations and policies are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws, anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, and trade sanctions laws and regulations. In the event new laws and regulations are enacted or existing laws are amended, implementing compliance with such new or amended laws may result in a loss of revenue, increased costs of doing business and a change to our strategic objectives, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we are subject to the risk that we, our affiliated entities or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take action determined to be in violation of any of these laws. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. 16 Table of Contents Litigation against us could be costly and time consuming to defend. We are from time to time subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes and employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation may result in substantial costs and may divert management’s attention and resources, which may seriously harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, legal claims that have not yet been asserted against us may be asserted in the future. Our business could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. We may face various security threats, including cyber threats, threats to our infrastructure, and threats from terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with these threats. Although we utilize a combination of tailored and industry standard security measures and technology to monitor and mitigate these threats, we cannot guarantee that these measures and technology will be sufficient to prevent security threats from materializing. We may be subject to cyber-based attacks and other attempts to threaten our information technology systems, including attempts to gain unauthorized access to our proprietary information and attacks from computer hackers, viruses, malicious code and other security problems. Due to the evolving nature of these security threats, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. The costs related to cyber or other threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, the value of our intellectual property, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price. In addition, from time to time we may replace and/or upgrade current financial, human resources and other information technology systems. These activities subject us to inherent costs and risks associated with replacing and updating these systems, including potential disruption of our internal control structure, substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and other risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems or of integrating new systems into our current systems. Our systems implementations and upgrades may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated, or at all. In addition, the implementation of new technology systems may cause disruptions in our business operations. Such disruption and any other information technology system disruptions, and our ability to mitigate those disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on us. Regulations related to “conflict minerals” may force us to incur additional expenses, may make our supply chain more complex and may result in damage to our reputation with customers. On August 22, 2012, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), the SEC adopted new requirements for companies that use certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, in their products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. These requirements will require companies that are subject to the rules to conduct due diligence, and disclose and report the findings of these inquiries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain components incorporated in our products. In addition, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not 17 Table of Contents be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these materials and metals used in our products through the diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. Products and Customers Competition could result in lower revenue, decreased margins and loss of market share. We operate in highly competitive markets worldwide and contracts for our systems and products are generally awarded on a competitive basis. We face competition from potential new competitors that in some cases face low barriers to entry, specialized competitors that focus on competing with only one of our systems or products and low cost competitors that are able to produce similar systems and products for less. Competition could result in not only a reduction in our revenue, but also may lower the prices we can charge for our systems and products and reduce our market share. To remain competitive we must be able to anticipate and respond quickly to our customers’ needs and enhance and upgrade our existing systems and products to meet those needs. We also must be able to price our systems and products competitively and make timely delivery of our systems and products. Our competitors may develop less expensive or more efficient systems and products, may be willing to charge lower prices in order to increase market share and may be better equipped to make deliveries to customers on a timelier basis. Some of our competitors have more capital and resources than we do and may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements. In addition, despite increased market demand, we may not be able to realize higher prices for our systems and products because we have competitors that use cost-plus pricing and do not set prices in accordance with market demand. Customers may cancel or delay projects. Our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenue. Customers may cancel or delay projects for reasons beyond our control. Our orders generally contain cancellation provisions which permit us to recover our costs in the event a customer cancels an order. If a customer cancels an order, we may not realize the full amount of revenue included in our backlog and may encounter difficulty in recovering our costs. If projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected and projects may remain in our backlog for extended periods of time. Revenue recognition occurs over long periods of time and is subject to unanticipated delays. Relatively large orders received in any given quarter may cause fluctuations in the levels of our quarterly backlog because the backlog in that quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. As a result, our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenue. Changes in our product mix can have a significant impact on our profit margins. Some of our products have higher profit margins than others. Consequently, changes in the product mix of our sales from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported profit margins. Some of our products also have a much higher internally manufactured cost component. Therefore, changes in product mix from quarter-to-quarter or from year-to-year can have a significant impact on our reported margins through a change in our manufacturing costs and specifically in our manufacturing costs as a percentage of revenue. 18 Table of Contents A significant portion of our accounts receivable are related to large contracts from customers in the same markets, which increases our exposure to credit risk. We monitor the credit worthiness of our customers. Significant portions of our sales are to customers who place large orders for custom systems and products and whose activities are related to the power generation, natural gas infrastructure and refining and petrochemical processing markets. As a result, our exposure to credit risk is affected to some degree by conditions within these markets and governmental and political conditions. We attempt to reduce our exposure to credit risk by requiring progress payments and letters of credit. However, unanticipated events that affect our customers could have a materially adverse impact on our operating results. Our systems and products could be subject to product liability claims, patent infringement claims and/or other litigation, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and harm our business reputation. We manufacture systems and products that create exposure to product liability claims, breach of contract claims and litigation. If our systems and products are not properly manufactured or designed, personal injuries or property damage could result, which could subject us to claims for damages. The costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. It is also possible that our products could be subject to patent infringement claims by third parties, which could require us to modify the design of our products, obtain a license of that technology and/or expose us to costly disputes and litigation. Our reputation and our business could also be adversely affected by all such claims, whether or not successful, and such claims could lead to decreased demand for our systems and products. Our insurance policies may not cover all claims against us or may be insufficient to cover such claims. We may be subject to breach of contract claims or product liability claims for personal injury and property damage. We maintain insurance coverage against these and other risks associated with our business. However, this insurance may not protect us against liability from some kinds of events, including events involving losses resulting from business interruption. We cannot assure that our insurance will be adequate in risk coverage or policy limits to cover all losses or liabilities that we may incur. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able in the future to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Any future damages caused by our systems and products that are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Currency fluctuations may reduce profits on our foreign sales or increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. A significant portion of our consolidated revenue is generated outside the United States. Consequently, we are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Translation losses resulting from currency fluctuations may adversely affect the profits from our operations and have a negative impact on our financial results. Foreign currency fluctuations may also make our systems and products more expensive for our customers, which could have a negative impact on our revenue. In addition, we purchase some foreign-made products directly and through our subcontractors. Due to the multiple currencies involved in our business, foreign currency positions are partially offset and are netted against one another to reduce exposure. We cannot assure that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates will not make these products more expensive to purchase. Increases in our direct or indirect costs of purchasing these products could negatively impact our financial results if we are not able to pass those increased costs on to our customers. Foreign exchange loss totaled $(0.8) million, $(0.1) million, and $(0.9) million for fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. As a percentage of revenue, foreign exchange loss was (0.6)%, (0.1)% and (0.7)% in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. 19 Table of Contents Our business is subject to risks of terrorist acts, acts of war, political unrest, public health concerns, labor disputes and natural disasters. Terrorist acts, acts of war, continued or increased political unrest in the Middle East or Ukraine, public health concerns, labor disputes or national disasters may disrupt our operations, as well as those of our customers. These types of acts have created, and continue to create, economic and political uncertainties and have contributed to global economic instability. The European Union and the United States have recently issued sanctions against Russia in connection with the situation in Ukraine. The extent of the impact of these sanctions on the global economy and PMFG are currently unknown. We will continue to evaluate the potential effects of these sanctions on PFMG. Future terrorist activities, military or security operations or natural disasters could weaken the domestic and global economies and create additional uncertainties, thus forcing our customers to reduce their capital spending, or cancel or delay already planned construction projects, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, including loss of sales or customers. Manufacturing and Procurement During fiscal 2014, we began manufacturing operations in two newly constructed facilities. Difficulties in bringing these facilities up to capacity and operating efficiently negatively impacted our financial results in fiscal 2014 and could continue to negatively impact our results in the future. In an effort to improve efficiency and increase our global manufacturing capacity to meet anticipated future growth, we completed construction of an 80,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Denton, Texas and a 175,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Zhenjiang, China. Both of these facilities replaced smaller existing facilities in those same cities. The new facility in Denton, Texas began manufacturing operations in July 2013. The new facility in Zhenjiang, China began manufacturing operations in September 2013. Due in part to the facility transitions, the Company incurred cost overruns on a number of customer projects during fiscal 2014, as well as higher than anticipated costs of staffing and operating the new facilities. These items negatively impacted revenue and gross margin realized in the fiscal year, as well as the Company’s ability to meet delivery commitments to its customers. The Company has implemented a number of corrective actions to mitigate the financial impact of such items, as well as improve our on-time delivery. There is no assurance that the corrective actions will reduce the impact of cost over runs, inefficiencies in our manufacturing and supply chain operations or our ability to meet customer delivery requirements. Our industry has experienced shortages in the availability of skilled workers. Any difficulty we experience replacing or adding qualified personnel could adversely affect our business. Our operations require the services of employees with technical training and related experience, including certified welders. As a result, our operations depend on the continuing availability of qualified employees. Our industry has experienced shortages of workers with the necessary skills. If we should suffer any material loss of these employees to competitors, or be unable to employ additional or replacement personnel with the requisite level of training and experience, our operations could be adversely affected. A significant increase in the wages paid to these workers by other employers could result in a reduction in our workforce, increases in wage rates, or both. Our customers may require us to perform portions of our projects in their local countries. Some countries have regulations requiring, and some customers prefer, a certain degree of local content be included in projects destined for installation in their country. These requirements and preferences may require us to outsource significant functions to manufacturers in foreign countries or otherwise to establish manufacturing capabilities in foreign countries. These requirements may negatively impact our profit margins and present project management issues. Our ability to conduct business outside the United States may be adversely affected by factors outside of our control and our revenue and profits from international sales could be adversely impacted. Because we manufacture and sell our products and services worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Revenue generated outside the United States represented 39%, 47% and 47% of our consolidated revenue during fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our operations and earnings throughout the world have been, and may in the future be, affected from time to time in varying degrees by a number of factors, including changes in foreign laws 20 Table of Contents and regulations, regional economic uncertainty, political instability, customs and tariffs, government awards or sanctions, inability to obtain export licenses, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, difficulty in collecting international accounts receivable, difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations governed by non-U.S. law and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and tax rates. The likelihood of the occurrence and the overall effect on our business vary from country to country and are not predictable. These factors may result in a decline in revenue or profitability or could adversely affect our ability to expand our business outside of the United States and may impact our ability to deliver our products and collect our receivables. Our systems and products are covered by warranties. Unanticipated warranty costs for defective systems and products could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and reputation. In addition, an increase in the number of systems we sell compared to individual products that our customers use as components in other systems, may increase our warranty costs. We offer warranty periods of various lengths to our customers depending upon the specific system or product and terms of the customer agreement. Among other things, warranties require us to repair or replace faulty systems or products. We have received warranty claims in the past. While we continually monitor our warranty claims and provide a reserve for estimated warranty issues on an on-going basis, an unanticipated claim could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we may be able to recover a portion of our warranty cost from a subcontractor if the subcontractor supplied the defective product or performed the service. However, this recovery may not always be possible. The need to repair or replace systems and products with design or manufacturing defects could temporarily delay the sale of new systems and products, reduce our profits, cause us to suffer a loss and could adversely affect our reputation. Furthermore, average warranty costs for complete systems are higher than warranty costs for individual products that our customers use as components in other less complex systems. As a result, our transition to offering more complete systems may increase our warranty costs. Warranty expense totaled $1.2 million, $1.9 million and $1.0 million for fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. As a percentage of revenue, warranty expense was 0.9%, 1.4% and 0.8% in fiscal 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. If actual costs for our projects with fixed-price contracts exceed our original estimates or if we are required to pay liquidated damages due to late delivery, our profits will be reduced or we may suffer losses. The majority of our contracts are fixed-price contracts from which we have limited ability to recover cost overruns. Because of the large scale and long-term nature of our contracts, unanticipated cost increases may occur as a result of several factors, including: • increases in cost or shortages of components, materials or labor; • errors in estimates or bidding; • unanticipated technical problems; • variations in productivity; • required project modifications not initiated by the customer; and • suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform. In addition to increasing costs, these factors could lead to “hold backs” by our customers impacting our cash flow negatively and also could delay delivery of our products. Our contracts often provide for liquidated damages for late delivery. Unanticipated costs, such as liquidated damages that we are required to pay in the case of late delivery, could negatively impact our profits. 21 Table of Contents Increasing costs for manufactured components and raw materials, such as steel, may adversely affect our profitability. We use a broad range of manufactured components and raw materials in our products, primarily raw steel and steel-related components. Rapid increases in the costs for these components and materials or temporary disruptions in supply could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our profit margins. Our use of subcontractors may reduce our ability to deliver products within the committed delivery timetables and within the design requirements. Our global customer base and product demand requires that we utilize a global network of subcontractors. While we believe our established network provides the Company a competitive advantage, it exposes the Company to manufacturing delays, cost overruns, and quality aspects which are in large part outside of the Company’s direct control. We have developed processes to select, communicate and monitor the work flow, costs and product quality of our subcontractors, however we could be adversely affected by project delays, cost overruns and substandard products developed by our subcontractors. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations governing remediation of facilities currently or formerly owned or operated by us. Our operations are subject to a number of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. We previously owned a facility which our assessment indicated soil and groundwater contamination were present. Soil remediation at the site was completed in 2009 and we have continued to monitor the site, in cooperation with the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. Future remediation at this site, or our other current or former facilities, could result in a significant financial obligation to perform the required clean-up which would have an adverse impact on our operations. Capital and Liquidity Our financing agreements may be insufficient to meet the operational and strategic needs of the Company. We entered into our Senior Secured Credit Agreement (the “Senior Credit Agreement”) in September 2012 which consists of a $2 million secured term A loan, a $10 million secured term B loan and a $30 million secured revolving credit line. The revolving credit facility of our Senior Credit Agreement includes both financial and non-financial covenants that may limit our ability to purchase capital equipment, pay dividends, enter into strategic transactions, or enter into certain other agreements. The revolving credit facility of our Senior Credit Agreement requires that the eligible collateral, primarily accounts receivable and inventory, exceed the balances outstanding, which include the unexpired letters of credit and bank guarantees. Further, the revolving credit facility of our Senior Credit Agreement and subsidiary debenture agreements require that we restrict a portion of our cash balances in relationship to the unexpired letters of credit and bank guarantees. Our European subsidiaries currently have debenture agreements in place that support short-term working capital needs, as well as provide letters of credit and bank guarantees for issuance to customers and suppliers. As of June 28, 2014 we had $1.1 million available for borrowing or letters of credit under our Senior Credit Agreement and $5.1 million available for letters of credit under the subsidiary debenture agreements. The ability to provide performance letters of credit and bank guarantees is required as a condition of being awarded certain contracts, as well as receipt of payments in advance of shipment. Accordingly, our inability to provide letters of credit and bank guarantees could negatively impact future contract awards and cash flow related to projects in process. 22 Table of Contents Failure to comply with the covenants in our financing agreements could negatively impact our liquidity and cost of our financing agreements. Our Senior Credit Agreement includes covenants and collateral requirements. Failure to comply with any of the covenants or lack of sufficient collateral could reduce or eliminate our ability to borrow money or obtain letters of credit and bank guarantees under the revolving credit facility of our Senior Credit Agreement. Under these circumstances, we may not have sufficient working capital, access to capital markets, or other resources to satisfy our debt and other obligations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014, we obtained an amendment to the Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the amendment, if the Debt Service Coverage Ratio (“DSC”), as discussed further in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”, is less than 1.50 to 1.00 as of the end of any fiscal quarter, we must deposit and maintain cash in a blocked collateral account (to which only the administrative agent under the Credit Agreement has access) in an aggregate amount equal to the greater of (a) $10.0 million or (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all revolving credit and swing line loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement, plus (ii) 100% of the undrawn face amount of all performance-related letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement, plus (iii) 30% (subject to upward adjustment) of the undrawn face amount of all warranty-related letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Agreement, plus (iv) $3.0 million, less (v) all term loan principal payments made on or after March 29, 2014. We may withdraw the cash in the collateral account when we achieve a DSC of at least 1.50 to 1.00 as of the end of a subsequent fiscal quarter, so long as no default or borrowing base deficiency then exists. We have experienced operating losses and negative cash flow in recent periods, and have limited liquidity resources, which could impair our ability to grow and adversely affect our operations. We have recently experienced operating losses and negative cash flow. If we are unable to return to profitability, we may not be able to take advantage of new opportunities, adequately respond to competitive pressures or fully execute our business plan. Under our Senior Secured Credit Agreement, our liquidity is limited. Working capital requirements and tax consequences may limit our ability to repatriate existing cash balances from our foreign operations. We depend on letters of credit issued under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and funds generated from operating activities to sustain and grow our business. If we are unable to return to profitability, it could undermine our ability to pursue growth opportunities and could limit the working capital available to our business, harming our operating results. Our financial performance may vary significantly from period to period, making it difficult to estimate future revenue. Our revenue and earnings have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future. Our contracts generally stipulate customer-specific delivery terms and may have contract cycles of a year or more, which subjects these contracts to many factors beyond our control. In addition, contracts that are significantly larger in size than our typical contracts tend to have a greater impact on our operating results. Furthermore, as a significant portion of our operating costs are fixed, an unanticipated decrease in our revenue, a delay or cancellation of orders in backlog, or a decrease in the demand for our products, may have a significant impact on our operating results. Therefore, our operating results may be subject to significant variations and our operating performance in any period may not be indicative of our future performance. Changes in billing terms can increase our exposure to working capital and credit risk. We sell our systems and products under contracts that allow us to either bill upon the completion of certain agreed upon milestones, or upon actual shipment of the system or product. We attempt to negotiate progress-billing milestones on large contracts to help us manage working capital and to reduce the credit risk associated with these large contracts. Consequently, shifts in the billing terms of the contracts in our backlog from period to period can increase our requirement for working capital and can increase our exposure to credit risk. We intend to continue to pursue acquisition opportunities, which may subject us to considerable business and financial risk. We evaluate potential acquisitions on an ongoing basis. We may not be successful in identifying acquisition opportunities, assessing the value, strengths and weaknesses of these opportunities and consummating acquisitions on acceptable terms. Furthermore, suitable acquisition opportunities may not 23 Table of Contents be made available or known to us. In addition, we may compete for acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than we do. Borrowings necessary to finance acquisitions may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Future acquisitions also may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. If we are unable to successfully implement our acquisition strategy or address the risks associated with acquisitions, or if we encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays frequently encountered in connection with the integration of acquired entities and the expansion of operations, our growth and ability to compete may be impaired, we may fail to achieve acquisition synergies and we may be required to focus resources on integration of operations rather than on our primary business. The concentration of ownership of our common stock may result in significant movement in the trading value of our common stock in the event a single stockholder or group of stockholders purchases or sells our common stock As of June 28, 2014 six stockholders individually reported an ownership position greater than five percent of our outstanding common stock. In the aggregate these six stockholders own greater than 50 percent of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of share ownership, combined with the relative illiquidity of our common stock, could result in significant decrease in the trading value of our common stock should one of more of those stockholders decide to reduce their ownership position. Provisions of our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage a takeover that individual stockholders may consider favorable or the removal of all current directors and management. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that individual stockholders may consider favorable or the removal of our current management. Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring or merging with us. As a result, our stock price may decrease and stockholders might not receive a change of control premium over the then-current market price of the common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains a “blank check” preferred stock provision. Blank check preferred stock enables our Board, without stockholder approval, to designate and issue additional series and classes of preferred stock with such dividend rights, liquidation preferences, conversion rights, terms of redemption, voting or other rights, including the right to issue convertible securities with no limitation on conversion, as our Board may determine, including rights to dividends and proceeds in a liquidation that are senior to the common stock. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire or merge with us which could adversely affect the market price of the common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. The limited liquidity for our common stock could affect your ability to sell your shares at a satisfactory price. Our common stock is relatively illiquid. As of August 30, 2014, we had 21,253,980 shares of common stock outstanding. The average daily trading volume in our common stock, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market, for the 50 trading days ending on August 29, 2014 was approximately 150,000 shares. A more active public market for our common stock may not develop, which could adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of our common stock. Moreover, a thin trading market for our stock could cause the market price for our common stock to fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. Without a larger float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of 24 Table of Contents companies with broader public ownership and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In addition, in the absence of an active public trading market, stockholders may be unable to liquidate your shares of our common stock at a satisfactory price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock has experienced, and may continue to experience, substantial volatility. During the period beginning June 30, 2013 through June 28, 2014, the price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ranged from a low of $4.11 to a high of $9.23 per share. We expect our common stock to continue to be subject to fluctuations. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We do not plan to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. As a result, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support our operations and growth. Additionally, our Senior Credit Agreement restricts the payment of dividends. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Issuance of shares under our stock incentive plan or in connection with transactions will dilute current stockholders. Pursuant to our 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, we are authorized to grant options and other stock awards for up to 1,800,000 shares to our officers, employees, directors and consultants. As of June 28, 2014 there were 1,111,682 shares of our common stock reserved for future issuance under our stock incentive plans. Stockholders will incur dilution upon exercise or issuance of any stock awards under our stock incentive plans. In addition, if we raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock, or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for common stock, or if we use our securities as consideration for future acquisitions or investments, further dilution to our existing stockholders will result, and new investors could have rights superior to existing stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 25 Table of Contents 