Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, investors should consider carefully the following information before making an investment in our common stock. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In such case, the net asset value of our common stock could decline, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Structure Economic activity in the United States was adversely impacted by the global financial crisis of 2008 and future recessions or downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business. Beginning in the third quarter of 2007, global credit and other financial markets suffered substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption. These forces reached extraordinary levels in late 2008, resulting in the bankruptcy of, the acquisition of, or government intervention in the affairs of several major domestic and international financial institutions. In particular, the financial services sector was negatively impacted by significant write-offs as the value of the assets held by financial firms declined, impairing their capital positions and abilities to lend and invest. We believe that such value declines were exacerbated by widespread forced liquidations as leveraged holders of financial assets, faced with declining prices, were compelled to sell to meet margin requirements and maintain compliance with applicable capital standards. Such forced liquidations also impaired or eliminated many investors and investment vehicles, leading to a decline in the supply of capital for investment and depressed pricing levels for many assets. These events significantly diminished overall confidence in the debt and equity markets, engendered unprecedented declines in the values of certain assets, and caused extreme economic uncertainty. Deterioration of economic and market conditions in the future could negatively impact credit spreads as well as our ability to obtain financing, particularly from the debt markets. Future downgrades of the U.S. credit rating and global economic uncertainty could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In August 2011, S&P’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from “AAA” to “AA+,” which was affirmed by S&P in June 2013. In January 2012, S&P’s Ratings Services lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating for France, Italy, Spain and six other European countries, which has negatively impacted global markets and economic conditions. In addition, in April 2012, S&P’s Ratings Services further lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating for Spain. Recent U.S. budget deficit concerns, together with 27 Table of Contents signs of deteriorating sovereign debt conditions in Europe, have increased the possibility of additional credit-rating downgrades and economic slowdowns. The impact of any further downgrade to the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating, or its perceived creditworthiness, and the impact of the current crisis in Europe with respect to the ability of certain European Union countries to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations is inherently unpredictable and could adversely affect the U.S. and global financial markets and economic conditions. In addition, the economic downturn and the significant government interventions into the financial markets and fiscal stimulus spending over the last several years have contributed to significantly increased U.S. budget deficits. There can be no assurance that future fiscal or monetary measures to aid economic recovery will be effective. These developments and reactions of the credit markets toward these developments could cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to obtain debt financing on favorable terms. In addition, any adverse economic conditions resulting from any further downgrade of the U.S. government’s sovereign credit rating or the economic crisis in Europe could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Price declines in the large corporate leveraged loan market may adversely affect the fair value of our syndicated loan portfolio, reducing our net asset value through increased net unrealized depreciation. Prior to the onset of the financial crisis, CLOs, a type of leveraged investment vehicle holding corporate loans, hedge funds and other highly leveraged investment vehicles comprised a substantial portion of the market for purchasing and holding first and second lien secured loans. As the secondary market pricing of the loans underlying these portfolios deteriorated during the fourth quarter of 2008, it is our understanding that many investors, as a result of their generally high degrees of leverage, were forced to raise cash by selling their interests in performing loans in order to satisfy margin requirements or the equivalent of margin requirements imposed by their lenders. This resulted in a forced deleveraging cycle of price declines, compulsory sales and further price declines, with widespread redemption requests and other constraints resulting from the credit crisis generating further selling pressure. This pervasive forced selling and the resultant price declines eliminated or significantly impaired many of our leveraged competitors for investment opportunities, especially those having built their investment portfolios prior to the financial crisis. Conditions in the large corporate leveraged loan market may experience similar disruptions or deterioration, which may cause pricing levels to similarly decline or be volatile. As a result, we may suffer unrealized depreciation and could incur realized losses in connection with the sale of our syndicated loans, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on FB Advisor’s and GDFM’s ability to manage and support our investment process. If either FB Advisor or GDFM were to lose any members of their respective senior management teams, our ability to achieve our investment objectives could be significantly harmed. Since we have no employees, we depend on the investment expertise, skill and network of business contacts of FB Advisor and GDFM. FB Advisor, with the assistance of GDFM, evaluates, negotiates, structures, executes, monitors and services our investments. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service and coordination of FB Advisor and its senior management team. The departure of any members of FB Advisor’s senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. Likewise, the departure of any key employees of GDFM may impact its ability to render services to us under the terms of its sub-advisory agreement with FB Advisor. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives depends on FB Advisor’s ability, with the assistance of GDFM, to identify, analyze, invest in, finance and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. FB Advisor’s capabilities in structuring the investment process, providing competent, attentive and efficient services to us, and facilitating access to financing on acceptable terms depend on the employment of investment professionals in an adequate number and of adequate sophistication to match the corresponding flow of transactions. To achieve our investment objectives, FB Advisor may need to hire, train, supervise and manage 28 Table of Contents new investment professionals to participate in our investment selection and monitoring process. FB Advisor may not be able to find investment professionals in a timely manner or at all. Failure to support our investment process could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, both the investment advisory and administrative services agreement and the sub-advisory agreement that FB Advisor has entered into with us and GDFM, respectively, have termination provisions that allow the parties to terminate the agreements without penalty. The investment advisory and administrative services agreement may be terminated at any time, without penalty, by FB Advisor, upon 120 days’ notice to us (which will be reduced to 60 days’ notice upon the listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange). The sub-advisory agreement may be terminated at any time, without the payment of any penalty, upon 60 days’ written notice by GDFM or, if our board of directors or the holders of a majority of our outstanding voting securities determine that the sub-advisory agreement with GDFM should be terminated, by FB Advisor. If either agreement is terminated, it may adversely affect the quality of our investment opportunities. In addition, in the event such agreements are terminated, it may be difficult for us to replace FB Advisor or for FB Advisor to replace GDFM. Furthermore, the termination of either of these agreements may adversely impact the terms of any financing facility into which we may enter, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Because our business model depends to a significant extent upon relationships with private equity sponsors, investment banks and commercial banks, the inability of FB Advisor and GDFM to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. If FB Advisor or GDFM fails to maintain its existing relationships with private equity sponsors, investment banks and commercial banks on which they rely to provide us with potential investment opportunities, or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we may not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom FB Advisor and GDFM have relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. We may face increasing competition for investment opportunities, which could delay deployment of our capital, reduce returns and result in losses. We compete for investments with other BDCs and investment funds (including private equity funds, mezzanine funds and CLO funds), as well as traditional financial services companies such as commercial banks and other sources of funding. Moreover, alternative investment vehicles, such as hedge funds, have begun to invest in areas in which they have not traditionally invested, including making investments in middle market private U.S. companies. As a result of these new entrants, competition for investment opportunities in middle market private U.S. companies may intensify. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we have. These characteristics could allow our competitors to consider a wider variety of investments, establish more relationships and offer better pricing and more flexible structuring than we are able to do. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. If we are forced to match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may not be able to achieve acceptable returns on our investments or may bear substantial risk of capital loss. A significant part of our competitive advantage stems from the fact that the market for investments in middle market private U.S. companies is underserved by traditional commercial banks and other financial sources. A significant increase in the number and/or the size of our competitors in this target market could force us to accept less attractive investment terms. Furthermore, many of our competitors have greater experience operating under, or are not subject to, the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a BDC. 29 Table of Contents A significant portion of our investment portfolio is and will be recorded at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors and, as a result, there is and will be uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Under the 1940 Act, we are required to carry our portfolio investments at market value or, if there is no readily available market value, at fair value, as determined by our board of directors. There is not a public market for the securities of the privately-held companies in which we invest. Many of our investments are not publicly-traded or actively-traded on a secondary market but are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors or are not traded at all. As a result, we value these securities quarterly at fair value as determined in good faith by our board of directors. Certain factors that may be considered in determining the fair value of our investments include dealer quotes for securities traded on the secondary market for institutional investors, the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and its ability to make payments on its indebtedness, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to comparable publicly-traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these non-traded securities existed. Due to this uncertainty, our fair value determinations may cause our net asset value on a given date to materially understate or overstate the value that we may ultimately realize upon the sale of one or more of our investments. There is a risk that investors in our common stock may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We cannot assure stockholders that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. All distributions will be paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our net investment income, our financial condition, maintenance of our RIC status, compliance with applicable BDC regulations and such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be limited in our ability to make distributions. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation—Senior Securities.” Our distribution proceeds may exceed our earnings. Therefore, portions of the distributions that we make may represent a return of capital to stockholders for tax purposes, which will lower their tax basis in their shares. We may pay all or a substantial portion of our distributions from the proceeds of the sale of shares of our common stock or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow, which may constitute a return of stockholders’ capital and will lower such stockholders’ tax basis in their shares. A return of capital generally is a return of a stockholder’s investment rather than a return of earnings or gains derived from our investment activities. Our board of directors may change our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our board of directors has the authority to modify or waive our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies, investment criteria and strategies would have on our business, net asset value, operating results and the value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively impact our ability to pay stockholders distributions and cause them to lose all or part of their investment. Moreover, we have significant investment flexibility and may invest our assets in ways with which investors may not agree. Finally, since our shares are not currently listed on a national securities exchange, stockholders will be limited in their ability to sell their shares in response to any changes in our investment policy, operating policies, investment criteria or strategies. 30 Table of Contents If we internalize our management functions, a stockholder’s interest in us could be diluted, and we could incur other significant costs associated with being self-managed. Our board of directors may decide in the future to internalize our management functions. If we do so, we may elect to negotiate to acquire FB Advisor’s assets and personnel. At this time, we cannot anticipate the form or amount of consideration or other terms relating to any such acquisition. Such consideration could take many forms, including cash payments, promissory notes and shares of our common stock. The payment of such consideration could result in dilution of a stockholder’s interest in us and could reduce the earnings per share attributable to their investment. In addition, while we would no longer bear the costs of the various fees and expenses we expect to pay to FB Advisor under the investment advisory and administrative services agreement, we would incur the compensation and benefits costs of our officers and other employees and consultants that are being paid by FB Advisor or its affiliates. In addition, we may issue equity awards to officers, employees and consultants. These awards would decrease net income and may further dilute an investment in us. We cannot reasonably estimate the amount of fees we would save or the costs we would incur if we became self-managed. If the expenses we assume as a result of an internalization are higher than the expenses we avoid paying to FB Advisor, our earnings per share would be lower as a result of the internalization than it otherwise would have been, potentially decreasing the amount of funds available to distribute to our stockholders and the value of our shares. As we are currently organized, we do not have any employees. If we elect to internalize our operations, we would employ personnel and would be subject to potential liabilities commonly faced by employers, such as workers disability and compensation claims and other employee-related liabilities and grievances. If we internalize our management functions, we could have difficulty integrating these functions as a standalone entity. Currently, individuals employed by FB Advisor and its affiliates perform asset management and general and administrative functions, including accounting and financial reporting, for multiple entities. These personnel have a great deal of know-how and experience. We may fail to properly identify the appropriate mix of personnel and capital needs to operate as a standalone entity. An inability to manage an internalization transaction effectively could thus result in our incurring excess costs and/or suffering deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting. Such deficiencies could cause us to incur additional costs and our management’s attention could be diverted from effectively managing our investments. Internalization transactions have also, in some cases, been the subject of litigation. Even if these claims are without merit, we could be forced to spend significant amounts of money defending such claims, which would reduce the amount of funds we have available for investment in targeted assets. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations or the operations of our business partners may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We and our portfolio companies are subject to regulation at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us and our stockholders, potentially with retroactive effect. Changes in laws or regulations governing the operations of those with whom we do business could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any changes to the laws and regulations governing our operations, including with respect to permitted investments, may cause us to alter our investment strategy to avail ourselves of new or different opportunities or make other changes to our business. Such changes could result in material differences to our strategies and plans as set forth in this annual report on Form 10-K and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of FB Advisor and GDFM to other types of investments in which FB Advisor 31 Table of Contents and GDFM may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of a stockholder’s investment. The impact of recent financial reform legislation on us is uncertain. In light of recent conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, institutes a wide range of reforms that will have an impact on all financial institutions. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time, most of which will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full impact such requirements will have on our business, results of operations or financial condition is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with any such laws, regulations or principles, or changes thereto, may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, these changes could be materially adverse to us and our stockholders. As a public company, we are subject to regulations not applicable to private companies, such as provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Efforts to comply with such regulations will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with such regulations may adversely affect us. As a public company, we are subject to regulations not applicable to private companies, including provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. Our management is required to report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder. We are required to review on an annual basis our internal control over financial reporting, and on a quarterly and annual basis to evaluate and disclose changes in our internal control over financial reporting. As a result, we expect to incur significant additional expenses, which may negatively impact our financial performance and our ability to make distributions. This process will also result in a diversion of management’s time and attention. We cannot be certain as to the timing of the completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations, and we may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that our internal control over financial reporting is or will be effective in a timely manner. In the event that we are unable to maintain an effective system of internal control and maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including our ability or inability to make investments in companies that meet our investment criteria, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any previous period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to FB Advisor and Its Affiliates FB Advisor and its affiliates, including our officers and some of our directors, face conflicts of interest caused by compensation arrangements with us and our affiliates, which could result in actions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. FB Advisor and its affiliates receive substantial fees from us in return for their services, and these fees could influence the advice provided to us. Among other matters, the compensation arrangements could affect their judgment with respect to public offerings of equity by us, which allow the dealer manager to earn additional dealer manager fees and FB Advisor to earn increased asset management fees. In addition, the decision to utilize leverage has increased our assets and, as a result, has increased the amount of management fees payable to FB Advisor. We may be obligated to pay FB Advisor incentive compensation on income that we have not received. Any incentive fee payable by us that relates to our net investment income may be computed and paid on income that may include interest that has been accrued but not yet received. If a portfolio company defaults on a loan that is structured to provide accrued interest, it is possible that accrued interest previously included in the calculation of the incentive fee will become uncollectible. FB Advisor is not under any obligation to reimburse us for any part of the incentive fee it received that was based on accrued income that we never received as a result of a default by an entity on the obligation that resulted in the accrual of such income, and such circumstances would result in our paying an incentive fee on income we never received. For federal income tax purposes, we are required to recognize taxable income (such as deferred interest that is accrued as original issue discount) in some circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash and to make distributions with respect to such income to maintain our status as a RIC. Under such circumstances, we may have difficulty meeting the Annual Distribution Requirement necessary to maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. This difficulty in making the required distribution may be amplified to the extent that we are required to pay an incentive fee with respect to such accrued income. As a result, we may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. There may be conflicts of interest related to obligations FB Advisor’s and GDFM’s senior management and investment teams have to our affiliates and to other clients. The members of the senior management and investment teams of both FB Advisor and GDFM serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do, or of investment funds managed by the same personnel. For example, the officers, managers and other personnel of FB Advisor also serve in similar capacities for the investment advisers to Franklin Square Holdings’ three other affiliated BDCs, FS Energy and Power Fund, FS Investment Corporation II, and FS Investment Corporation III and Franklin Square Holdings’ affiliated closed-end management investment company, FS Global Credit Opportunities Fund. In serving in these multiple and other capacities, they may have obligations to other clients or investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which may not be in our best interests or in the best interest of our stockholders. Our investment objectives may overlap with the investment objectives of such investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles. For example, we rely on FB Advisor to manage our day-to-day activities and to implement our investment strategy. FB Advisor and certain of its affiliates are presently, and plan in the future to continue to be, involved with activities which are unrelated to us. As a result of these activities, FB Advisor, its employees and certain of its affiliates will have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between us and other activities in which they are or may become involved, including the management of other entities affiliated with Franklin Square Holdings. FB Advisor and its employees will devote only as much of its or their time to our business as FB Advisor and its employees, in their judgment, determine is reasonably required, which may be substantially less than their full time. 33 Table of Contents Furthermore, GDFM, on which FB Advisor relies to assist it in identifying investment opportunities and making investment recommendations, has similar conflicts of interest. GDFM or its affiliate, GSO, serves as investment sub-adviser to Franklin Square Holdings’ three other affiliated BDCs and Franklin Square Holdings’ affiliated closed-end management investment company. GDFM, its affiliates and their respective members, partners, officers and employees will devote as much of their time to our activities as they deem necessary and appropriate. GDFM and its affiliates are not restricted from forming additional investment funds, from entering into other investment advisory relationships or from engaging in other business activities, even though such activities may be in competition with us and/or may involve substantial time and resources of GDFM. Also, in connection with such business activities, GDFM and its affiliates may have existing business relationships or access to material, non-public information that may prevent it from recommending investment opportunities that would otherwise fit within our investment objectives. All of these factors could be viewed as creating a conflict of interest in that the time, effort and ability of the members of GDFM, its affiliates and their officers and employees will not be devoted exclusively to our business but will be allocated between us and the management of the monies of other advisees of GDFM and its affiliates. The time and resources that individuals employed by FB Advisor and GDFM devote to us may be diverted and we may face additional competition due to the fact that individuals employed by FB Advisor and GDFM are not prohibited from raising money for or managing another entity that makes the same types of investments that we target. Neither FB Advisor nor GDFM, or individuals employed by FB Advisor or GDFM, are prohibited from raising money for and managing another investment entity that makes the same types of investments as those we target. As a result, the time and resources that these individuals may devote to us may be diverted. In addition, we may compete with any such investment entity for the same investors and investment opportunities. In an order dated June 4, 2013, the SEC granted exemptive relief permitting us, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to co-invest in certain privately negotiated investment transactions with our co-investment affiliates. Because we did not seek exemptive relief to engage in co-investment transactions with GDFM and its affiliates, we will be permitted to co-invest with GDFM and its affiliates only in accordance with existing regulatory guidance. Affiliates of GDFM, whose primary businesses include the origination of investments, engage in investment advisory business with accounts that compete with us. Affiliates of GDFM have no obligation to make their originated investment opportunities available to GDFM or to us. Our incentive fee may induce FB Advisor to make, and GDFM to recommend, speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to FB Advisor may create an incentive for it to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to FB Advisor is determined may encourage it to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. In addition, the fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, may encourage FB Advisor to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be in our best interests, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. In addition, since GDFM will receive a portion of the advisory fees paid to FB Advisor, GDFM may have an incentive to recommend investments that are riskier or more speculative. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Business Development Companies The requirement that we invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance with our current business strategy; conversely, the failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could result in our failure to maintain our status as a BDC. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. Therefore, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets. Conversely, if we fail to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose of investments at an inopportune time to comply with the 1940 Act. If we were forced to sell non-qualifying investments in the portfolio for compliance purposes, the proceeds from such sale could be significantly less than the current value of such investments. Failure to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC and a RIC will affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise, additional capital or borrow for investment purposes, which may have a negative effect on our growth. As a result of the Annual Distribution Requirement to qualify as a RIC, we may need to periodically access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. We may issue “senior securities,” as defined in the 1940 Act, including borrowing money from banks or other financial institutions only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. Our ability to issue different types of securities is also limited. Compliance with these requirements may unfavorably limit our investment opportunities and reduce our ability in comparison to other companies to profit from favorable spreads between the rates at which we can borrow and the rates at which we can lend. As a BDC, therefore, we may issue equity continuously at a rate more frequent than our privately owned competitors, which may lead to greater stockholder dilution. We expect to borrow for investment purposes. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the asset coverage test, which would prohibit us from paying distributions and could prevent us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy the asset coverage test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our debt financing, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Under the 1940 Act, we generally are prohibited from issuing or selling our common stock at a price per share, after deducting selling commissions and dealer manager fees, that is below our net asset value per share, which may be a disadvantage as compared with other public companies. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the then-current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors and independent directors determine that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders as well, as those stockholders that are not affiliated with us, approve such sale. At our 2013 annual stockholders meeting, our stockholders approved the sale of shares of our common stock at a price below the then-current net asset value per share, subject to certain conditions, during the period beginning on July 17, 2013 and expiring on July 17, 2014. 35 Table of Contents Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of a majority of the independent members of our board of directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any securities from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our board of directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our board of directors and, in some cases, the SEC. In an order dated June 4, 2013, the SEC granted exemptive relief permitting us, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to co-invest in certain privately negotiated investment transactions with our co-investment affiliates. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons to the extent not covered by our exemptive relief, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by FB Advisor without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We are uncertain of our sources for funding our future capital needs; if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. Any working capital reserves we maintain may not be sufficient for investment purposes, and we may require debt or equity financing to operate. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for investments or for any other reason, these sources of funding may not be available to us. Consequently, if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. As a result, we would be less able to allocate our portfolio among various issuers and industries and achieve our investment objectives, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. Our investments in senior secured loans, second lien secured loans, subordinated debt and equity of private U.S. companies, including middle market companies, may be risky and there is no limit on the amount of any such investments in which we may invest. Senior Secured Loans and Second Lien Secured Loans. There is a risk that any collateral pledged by portfolio companies in which we have taken a security interest may decrease in value over time or lose its entire value, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. To the extent our debt investment is collateralized by the securities of a portfolio company’s subsidiaries, such securities may lose some or all of their value in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the portfolio company. Also, in some circumstances, our security interest may be contractually or structurally subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Loans that are under-collateralized involve a greater risk of loss. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. 36 Table of Contents Subordinated Debt. Our subordinated debt investments will generally rank junior in priority of payment to senior loans and will generally be unsecured. This may result in a heightened level of risk and volatility or a loss of principal, which could lead to the loss of the entire investment. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our stockholders to non-cash income. Since we will not receive any principal repayments prior to the maturity of some of our subordinated debt investments, such investments will be of greater risk than amortizing loans. Equity Investments. We expect to make select equity investments. In addition, when we invest in senior secured and second lien secured loans or subordinated debt, we may acquire warrants to purchase equity securities. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Non-U.S. securities. We may invest in non-U.S. securities, which may include securities denominated in U.S. dollars or in non-U.S. currencies, to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. Because evidences of ownership of such securities usually are held outside the United States, we would be subject to additional risks if we invested in non-U.S. securities, which include possible adverse political and economic developments, seizure or nationalization of foreign deposits and adoption of governmental restrictions which might adversely affect or restrict the payment of principal and interest on the non-U.S. securities to investors located outside the country of the issuer, whether from currency blockage or otherwise. Since non-U.S. securities may be purchased with and payable in foreign currencies, the value of these assets as measured in U.S. dollars may be affected unfavorably by changes in currency rates and exchange control regulations. In addition, we invest in securities that are rated below investment grade by rating agencies or that would be rated below investment grade if they were rated. Below investment grade securities, which are often referred to as “junk,” have predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay interest and repay principal. They may also be difficult to value and illiquid. Investing in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Investments in middle market companies involve some of the same risks that apply generally to investments in larger, more established companies. However, such investments have more pronounced risks in that they: • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral pledged under such securities and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tends to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and members of FB Advisor may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and 37 Table of Contents • may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any proceeds. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. If one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In situations where a bankruptcy carries a high degree of political significance, our legal rights may be subordinated to other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or in instances where we exercise control over the borrower or render significant managerial assistance. We generally will not control our portfolio companies. We do not expect to control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements with such portfolio companies may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We are exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. We are subject to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt for our financing needs, if any. Interest rates have recently been at or near historic lows. In the event of a rising interest rate environment, payments under floating rate debt instruments generally would rise and there may be a significant number of issuers of such floating rate debt instruments that would be unable or unwilling to pay such increased interest costs and may otherwise be unable to repay their loans. Investments in floating rate debt instruments may also decline in value in response to rising interest rates if the interest rates of such investments do not rise as much, or 38 Table of Contents as quickly, as market interest rates in general. Similarly, during periods of rising interest rates, fixed rate debt instruments may decline in value because the fixed rates of interest paid thereunder may be below market interest rates. Second priority liens on collateral securing debt investments that we make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain debt investments that we make to portfolio companies may be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing first priority debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by such company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the debt obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against such company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the debt investments we make in our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our debt investments during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase, and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions may also decrease the value of any collateral securing our first lien or second lien secured loans. A prolonged recession may further decrease the value of such collateral and result in losses of value in our portfolio and a decrease in our revenues, net income and net asset value. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us on terms we deem acceptable. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A covenant breach by our portfolio companies may harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. 39 Table of Contents Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged. Some of our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged, which may have adverse consequences to these companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants and the leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to take advantage of business opportunities may be limited. Further, a leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we may make may include warrants or other equity-linked securities. In addition, we may make direct equity investments in portfolio companies. The equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We may be unable to exercise any put rights we acquire, which grant us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company, for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. Our investments are primarily in privately-held companies. Investments in private companies pose significantly greater risks than investments in public companies. First, private companies have reduced access to the capital markets, resulting in diminished capital resources and the ability to withstand financial distress. As a result, these companies, which may present greater credit risk than public companies, may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold. Second, the investments themselves often may be illiquid. The securities of many of the companies in which we invest are not publicly-traded or actively-traded on the secondary market and are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors. In addition, such securities may be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale. As such, we may have difficulty exiting an investment promptly or at a desired price prior to maturity or outside of a normal amortization schedule. These investments may also be difficult to value because little public information generally exists about private companies, requiring an experienced due diligence team to analyze and value the potential portfolio company. Finally, these companies may not have third-party debt ratings or audited financial statements. We must therefore rely on the ability of FB Advisor and/or GDFM to obtain adequate information through due diligence to evaluate the creditworthiness and potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information will generally not be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules and regulations that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. A lack of liquidity in certain of our investments may adversely affect our business. We invest in certain companies whose securities are not publicly-traded or actively-traded on the secondary market and are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors and whose securities are subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or are otherwise less liquid than publicly-traded securities. The illiquidity of certain of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. The reduced liquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. 40 Table of Contents We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected return on the investment. Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be repaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we will generally reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt being prepaid and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt that was repaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments, net of prepayment fees, could negatively impact our return on equity. Risks Related to Debt Financing The agreements governing Broad Street’s revolving credit facility contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the credit facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Broad Street, has entered into the Broad Street credit facility with Deutsche Bank. The agreements governing the Broad Street credit facility contain default provisions such as: (a) the failure to make principal payments when due or interest payments within three business days of when due; (b) borrowings under the facility exceeding the applicable advance rates; (c) the purchase by Broad Street of certain ineligible assets; (d) the insolvency or bankruptcy of Broad Street or us; (e) our ceasing to act as investment manager of Broad Street’s assets; (f) the decline of our net asset value below $50,000; and (g) fraud or other illicit acts by us, FB Advisor or GDFM in our or their investment advisory capacities. An event of default under the Broad Street credit facility would result, among other things, in the termination of the availability of further funds under the Broad Street credit facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the Broad Street credit facility. This could disrupt our business, reduce our revenues and, by delaying any dividends allowed to us under the Broad Street credit facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business, make distribution payments to our stockholders and maintain our status as a RIC. The agreements governing the Broad Street credit facility also require Broad Street to comply with certain operational covenants. These covenants require Broad Street to, among other things, maintain eligible assets with an aggregate value equal to or exceeding a specified multiple of the borrowings under the Broad Street credit facility. The occurrence of certain “Super-Collateralization Events” results in an increase of the minimum aggregate value of eligible assets that Broad Street is required to maintain. Super-Collateralization Events include, without limitation: (i) certain key employees ceasing to be directors, principals, officers or investment managers of GDFM; (ii) the bankruptcy or insolvency of GDFM or FB Advisor; (iii) GDFM ceasing to act as our sub-adviser or FB Advisor ceasing to act as our investment adviser; (iv) our ceasing to act as Broad Street’s investment manager, becoming bankrupt or insolvent, defaulting on certain material agreements or failing to maintain a net asset value at least equal to $50,000; and (v) us, GDFM or FB Advisor committing fraud or other 41 Table of Contents illicit acts in our or their investment advisory capacities. A decline in the value of assets owned by Broad Street or the occurrence of a Super-Collateralization Event under the Broad Street credit facility could result in us being required to contribute additional assets to Broad Street, which would likely disrupt our business and impact our ability to meet our investment objectives and pay distributions to our stockholders. The failure to meet collateral requirements under the Broad Street credit facility or the occurrence of any other event of default which results in the termination of the Broad Street credit facility may force Broad Street or us to liquidate positions at a time and/or at a price which is disadvantageous to us and could result in losses. In addition, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Broad Street credit facility, Deutsche Bank would have the right to the assets pledged as collateral supporting the amounts outstanding under the Broad Street credit facility and could sell such assets in order to satisfy amounts due under the Broad Street credit facility. Each borrowing under the Broad Street credit facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure stockholders that Broad Street will be able to borrow funds under the Broad Street credit facility at any particular time or at all. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—Broad Street Credit Facility” for a more detailed discussion of the terms of the Broad Street credit facility. We are subject to risks associated with our debt securitization facility. On April 23, 2013, through two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Locust Street and Race Street, we entered into an amendment to our debt financing arrangement with JPM, pursuant to which up to $950 million will be made available to us to fund investments and for other general corporate purposes. The financing transaction with JPM is structured as a debt securitization. We use the term “debt securitization” to describe a form of secured borrowing under which an operating company, sometimes referred to as an originator, acquires or originates loans or other assets that earn income, whether on a one-time or recurring basis (collectively referred to herein as “income producing assets”), and borrows money on a non-recourse basis against a legally separate pool of income producing assets. In a typical debt securitization, the originator transfers the income producing assets to a special-purpose, bankruptcy-remote subsidiary, also referred to as a “special purpose entity”, which is established solely for the purpose of holding income producing assets and issuing debt secured by these income producing assets. The special purpose entity completes the borrowing through the issuance of notes secured by the income producing assets. Pursuant to the financing transaction, assets in our portfolio having an aggregate market value of approximately $1,792 million secure the obligations of Locust Street under the Class A Notes to be issued from time to time by Locust Street to Race Street pursuant to the Amended and Restated Indenture. The Class A Notes may be issued in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1,140 million and mature on April 15, 2024. Race Street will purchase the issued Class A Notes from time to time at a purchase price equal to their par value. Race Street, in turn, has entered into a repurchase transaction with JPM pursuant to the terms of the JPM Facility. Pursuant to the JPM Facility, JPM has agreed to purchase from time to time Class A Notes held by Race Street for an aggregate purchase price equal to approximately 83.33% of the principal amount of Class A Notes purchased. Subject to certain conditions, the maximum principal amount of Class A Notes that may be purchased under the JPM Facility is $1,140 million. Accordingly, the maximum amount payable at any time to Race Street under the JPM Facility will not exceed $950 million. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources—JPM Financing” for a more detailed discussion of the terms of this debt securitization facility. 42 Table of Contents As a result of this debt securitization facility, we are subject to certain risks, including those set forth below. Our equity investment in Locust Street is subordinated to the debt obligations of Locust Street. Any dividends or other payments in respect of our equity interest in Locust Street are subordinated in priority of payment to the Class A Notes. In addition, Locust Street is subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the Amended and Restated Indenture in respect of our equity interest. We will receive cash distributions based on our investment in Locust Street only if Locust Street has made all required cash interest payments on the Class A Notes. We cannot assure stockholders that distributions on the assets held by Locust Street will be sufficient to make any distributions to us or that the yield on our investment in Locust Street will meet our expectations. Our equity investment in Locust Street is unsecured and ranks behind all of the creditors, known or unknown, of Locust Street, including the holders of the Class A Notes. Consequently, if the value of Locust Street’s assets decreases as a result of conditions in the credit markets, defaulted loans, capital gains and losses on the underlying assets or prepayment or changes in interest rates generally, the value of our equity investment in Locust Street could be reduced. Accordingly, our investment in Locust Street may not produce a profit and may be subject to a loss in an amount up to the entire amount of such equity investment. In addition, if the value of Locust Street’s assets decreases and Locust Street is unable to make any required payments to Race Street pursuant to the terms of the Class A Notes, Race Street may, in turn, be unable to make any required payments to JPM pursuant to the terms of the JPM Facility. In such event, if the value of Race Street’s assets is not sufficient to meet Race Street’s payment obligations to JPM, we may be required to loan or otherwise provide additional funds to Race Street to cover Race Street’s payment obligations to JPM, or otherwise be subject to a loss in an amount up to the entire amount of our equity investment in Race Street. Our equity investment in Race Street is subordinated to the debt obligations of Race Street. Any dividends or other payments in respect of our equity interest in Race Street are subordinated in priority of payment to Race Street’s payment obligations under the JPM Facility. In addition, Race Street is subject to certain payment restrictions set forth in the JPM Facility in respect of our equity interest. We will receive cash distributions based on our investment in Race Street only if Race Street has made all required payments under the JPM Facility. We cannot assure stockholders that distributions on the assets held by Race Street, including the Class A Notes, will be sufficient to make any distributions to us or that the yield on our investment in Race Street will meet our expectations. Our equity investment in Race Street is unsecured and ranks behind all of the creditors, known or unknown, of Race Street, including JPM. Consequently, if the value of Race Street’s assets decreases as a result of conditions in the credit markets, defaulted loans, capital gains and losses on the underlying assets or prepayment or changes in interest rates generally, the value of our equity investment in Race Street could be reduced. Accordingly, our investment in Race Street may not produce a profit and may be subject to a loss in an amount up to the entire amount of such equity investment. In addition, if the value of Race Street’s assets decreases or Locust Street fails to make any required payments to Race Street pursuant to the terms of the Class A Notes, Race Street may be unable to make any required payments to JPM pursuant to the terms of the JPM Facility. In such event, if the value of Race Street’s assets is not sufficient to meet Race Street’s payment obligations to JPM, we may be required to loan or otherwise provide additional funds to Race Street to cover Race Street’s payment obligations to JPM, or otherwise be subject to a loss in an amount up to the entire amount of our equity investment in Race Street. 43 Table of Contents Our equity investments in Locust Street and Race Street have a high degree of leverage. The maximum aggregate principal amount of the Class A Notes that may be issued is $1,140 million and the aggregate market value of assets expected to be held by Locust Street when the financing arrangement is fully-ramped is approximately $1,792 million. Similarly, the maximum repurchase amount payable at any time by Race Street to JPM under the JPM Facility is $950 million, plus applicable interest, and the aggregate market value of assets expected to be held by Race Street when the financing arrangement is fully-ramped is $720 million. The market value of our equity assets in Locust Street and Race Street may be significantly affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the market value of the assets held by Locust Street and Race Street, changes in distributions on the assets held by Locust Street and Race Street, defaults and recoveries on those assets, capital gains and losses on those assets, prepayments on those assets and other risks associated with those assets. Our investments in Locust Street and Race Street may not produce a profit and may be subject to a loss in an amount up to the entire amount of such equity investment. The leveraged nature of our equity investment may magnify the adverse impact of any loss on our equity investment. The interests of JPM, as the holder of the Class A Notes, may not be aligned with our interests, and we will not have control over remedies in respect of the Class A Notes. The Class A Notes rank senior in right of payment to any equity securities issued by Locust Street. As a result, there are circumstances in which the interests of JPM, as the holder of the Class A Notes, may not be aligned with our interests. For example, under the terms of the Class A Notes, JPM has the right to receive payments of principal and interest prior to Locust Street making any distributions or dividends to holders of its equity securities. For as long as the Class A Notes remain outstanding, JPM has the right to act in certain circumstances with respect to the portfolio of assets that secure the obligations of Locust Street under the Class A Notes in ways that may benefit their interests but not ours, including by exercising remedies or directing the Amended and Restated Indenture trustee to declare events of default under or accelerate the Class A Notes in accordance with the terms of the Amended and Restated Indenture. JPM has no obligation to consider any possible adverse effect that actions taken may have on our equity interests. For example, upon the occurrence of an event of default with respect to the Class A Notes, the trustee, which is currently Citibank, may declare the outstanding principal amount of all of the Class A Notes, together with any accrued interest thereon, to be immediately due and payable. This would have the effect of accelerating the outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes and triggering a repayment obligation on the part of Locust Street. Locust Street may not have proceeds sufficient to make required payments on the Class A Notes and make any distributions to us. Any failure of Locust Street to make distributions on the equity interests we hold could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and may result in our inability to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our qualification as a RIC, or at all. Locust Street may fail to meet certain asset coverage and quality tests, which would have an adverse effect on us. Under the Amended and Restated Indenture, there are coverage tests and quality tests applicable to the collateral securing the Class A Notes. The first coverage test, or the Class A Interest Coverage Test, compares the amount of interest received on the portfolio of assets held by Locust Street to the amount of interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes. To meet the Class A Interest Coverage Test, the aggregate amount of interest received on the portfolio of assets held by Locust Street must equal at least 150% of the interest payable in respect of the Class A Notes. The second coverage test, or the Class A Par Value Test, compares the aggregate par value of the portfolio of assets (other than any asset acquired for a purchase price of less than 80% of its par value, which asset will be assigned a value equal to its purchase price) plus cash held by Locust Street to the aggregate outstanding par value of the Class A Notes. To meet the Class A Par Value Test, the aggregate par value of the portfolio of assets (other than any assets acquired for a purchase price of less than 80% of its par 44 Table of Contents value, which assets will be assigned a value equal to its purchase price) plus cash held by Locust Street must equal at least 145.36% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes. The third coverage test, or the Additional Class A Par Value Test, compares the aggregate principal amount of the portfolio of assets (other than any defaulted assets, which assets will be assigned a value equal to its market value) held by Locust Street to the aggregate outstanding par value of the Class A Notes. To meet the Additional Class A Par Value Test, the aggregate par value of the portfolio of assets (other than any defaulted assets, which assets will be assigned a value equal to its market value) held by Locust Street must equal at least 130% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Class A Notes. The quality tests compare the minimum weighted average fixed coupon rates, the minimum weighted average floating coupon rates, the weighted average life, the anticipated recovery rates and the anticipated default rates of the portfolio of assets held by Locust Street to certain benchmarks as described more fully in the Amended and Restated Indenture. If the Class A Interest Coverage Test or the Class A Par Value Test is not satisfied on any date on which compliance is measured, Locust Street is required to apply available amounts to the repayment of the outstanding principal of the Class A Notes to satisfy the applicable tests. Failure to satisfy the Additional Class A Par Value Test on any measurement date constitutes an event of default under the Amended and Restated Indenture. Obligations that may be added to the portfolio of assets held by Locust Street and constituting collateral from time to time under the Amended and Restated Indenture are subject to certain restrictions in respect of the quality tests referenced above and more fully described in the Amended and Restated Indenture. The market value of the underlying assets held by Locust Street and Race Street may decline causing Race Street to borrow funds from us in order to meet certain margin posting and minimum market value requirements, which would have an adverse effect on the timing of payments to us. If at any time during the term of the JPM Facility the market value of the underlying assets held by Locust Street securing the Class A Notes declines below the Margin Threshold, Race Street will be required to post cash collateral with JPM in an amount at least equal to the amount by which the market value of such assets at such time is less than the Margin Threshold. Similarly, pursuant to the JPM Facility, the market value of the underlying assets held by Race Street must be at least $648 million, or the Market Value Requirement. In either such event, in order to satisfy these requirements, Race Street intends to borrow funds from us pursuant to the Revolving Credit Agreement. We may, in our sole discretion, make such loans from time to time to Race Street pursuant to the terms of the Revolving Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement will accrue interest at a rate equal to one-month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.75% per annum. To the extent we loan additional funds to Race Street to satisfy the Margin Threshold or the Market Value Requirement, such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and may result in our inability to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our qualification as a RIC, or at all. There is no assurance that loans made pursuant to the Revolving Credit Agreement will be repaid. Restructurings of investments held by Locust Street or Race Street, if any, may decrease their value and reduce the value of our equity interests in these entities. As collateral manager, we have broad authority to direct and supervise the investment and reinvestment of the assets held by Locust Street and Race Street, which may require from time to time the execution of amendments, waivers, modifications and other changes to the investment documentation in accordance with the related collateral management agreements we have entered into with Locust Street and Race Street. During periods of economic uncertainty and recession, the necessity for amendments, waivers, modifications and restructurings of investments may increase. Such amendments, waivers, modifications and other restructurings may change the terms of the investments and, in some cases, may result in Locust Street or Race Street holding assets that do not meet certain specified criteria for the investments made by it. This could adversely impact the coverage and quality tests under the Amended and Restated Indenture applicable to Locust Street. This could also adversely impact the ability of Locust Street to meet the Margin Threshold and Race Street to meet the Market 45 Table of Contents Value Requirement. Any amendment, waiver, modification or other restructuring that reduces Locust Street’s compliance with the coverage and quality tests under the Amended and Restated Indenture will make it more likely that Locust Street will need to pay cash to reduce the unpaid principal amount of the Class A Notes so as to cure any breach of such tests. Similarly, any amendment, waiver, modification or other restructuring that reduces Locust Street’s ability to meet the Margin Threshold or Race Street’s ability to meet the Market Value Requirement will make it more likely that Race Street will need to retain assets, including cash, to increase the market value of the assets held by Race Street and to post cash collateral with JPM in an amount at least equal to the amount by which the market value of the underlying assets held by Locust Street is less than the Margin Threshold. Any such use of cash by Locust Street or Race Street would reduce distributions available to us or delay the timing of distributions to us. We may not receive cash from Locust Street or Race Street. We receive cash from Locust Street and Race Street only to the extent that Locust Street or Race Street, respectively, makes distributions to us. Locust Street may make distributions to us, in turn, only to the extent permitted by the Amended and Restated Indenture. The Amended and Restated Indenture generally provides that distributions by Locust Street may not be made unless all amounts owing with respect to the Class A Notes have been paid in full. Race Street may make distributions to us only to the extent permitted by the JPM Facility. The JPM Facility generally provides that distributions by Race Street may not be made if the Margin Threshold has not been met or if the market value of the underlying loans held by Race Street is less than the Market Value Requirement. If we do not receive cash from Locust Street or Race Street, we may be unable to make distributions to our stockholders in amounts sufficient to maintain our qualification as a RIC, or at all. We also could be forced to sell investments in our portfolio at less than their fair value in order to continue making such distributions. We are subject to the credit risk of JPM. If JPM fails to sell the Class A Notes back to Race Street at the end of the applicable period, Race Street’s recourse will be limited to an unsecured claim against JPM for the difference between the value of such Class A Notes at such time and the amount that would be owing by Race Street to JPM had JPM performed under the JPM Facility. The ability of JPM to satisfy such a claim will be subject to JPM’s creditworthiness at that time. If we borrow money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us will be magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of borrowings, also known as leverage, increases the volatility of investments by magnifying the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. If we use leverage to partially finance our investments, through borrowing from banks and other lenders, stockholders will experience increased risks of investing in our common stock. If the value of our assets increases, leverage would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leverage would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock distribution payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. In addition, the decision to utilize leverage will increase our assets and, as a result, will increase the amount of management fees payable to FB Advisor. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Since we intend to use debt to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we 46 Table of Contents can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates when we have debt outstanding, our cost of funds will increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with equity and long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to develop such expertise or arrange for such expertise to be provided. A rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee hurdle rate and may result in a substantial increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to FB Advisor with respect to pre-incentive fee net investment income. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Common Stock Our shares are not listed on an exchange or quoted through a quotation system, and may not be for the immediate future, if ever. Therefore, our stockholders have limited liquidity and may not receive a full return of invested capital upon selling shares. Our shares are illiquid assets for which there is not a secondary market. We have applied to list our shares on the NYSE, and, subject to NYSE approval, we expect trading to commence in April 2014, or at such earlier or later time as our board of directors may determine, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors. There can be no assurance that we will complete a liquidity event. A liquidity event could include: (1) a listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, including the NYSE, (2) the sale of all or substantially all of our assets either on a complete portfolio basis or individually followed by a liquidation or (3) a merger or another transaction approved by our board of directors in which our stockholders likely will receive cash or shares of a publicly-traded company. Historically, we conducted quarterly tender offers pursuant to our share repurchase program to provide limited liquidity to our stockholders. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities—Share Repurchase Program” for a detailed description of our share repurchase program. However, in anticipation of the potential listing of our shares of common stock on the NYSE, our board of directors has terminated our share repurchase program effective March 21, 2014, so, until our shares of common stock are listed or a new share repurchase program is adopted, stockholders have no source of liquidity other than privately negotiated transactions. If our shares are listed, we cannot assure stockholders that a public trading market will develop. Further, even if we do complete a liquidity event, stockholders may not receive a return of all of their invested capital. We are not obligated to complete a liquidity event by a specified date; therefore, it will be difficult for an investor to sell his or her shares. A liquidity event could include (1) a listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, (2) the sale of all or substantially all of our assets either on a complete portfolio basis or individually followed by a liquidation or (3) a merger or another transaction approved by our board of directors in which our stockholders likely will receive cash or shares of a publicly-traded company. We have applied to list our shares on the NYSE and, subject to NYSE approval, we expect trading to commence in April 2014, or at such earlier or 47 Table of Contents later time as our board of directors may determine, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors. However, there can be no assurance that we will complete a liquidity event by a specified date or at all. If we do not successfully complete a liquidity event or adopt a new share repurchase program, liquidity for an investor’s shares will be limited to privately negotiated transactions. If we list our shares of common stock on a national securities exchange, our shares of common stock may trade at a discount from net asset value, which could limit our ability to raise additional equity capital. Shares of closed-end investment companies, including BDCs, may trade at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. This characteristic of closed-end investment companies is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value per share may decline. Upon a listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, it is not possible to predict whether shares of our common stock will trade at, above, or below net asset value. In the recent past, including during much of 2009, the stocks of BDCs as an industry traded below net asset value and at near historic lows as a result of concerns over liquidity, leverage restrictions and distribution requirements. If our common stock is trading at a price below its net asset value per share, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares of our common stock at their market price without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. At our 2013 annual stockholders meeting, our stockholders approved the sale of shares of our common stock at a price below the then-current net asset value per share, subject to certain conditions, during the period beginning on July 17, 2013 and expiring on July 17, 2014. We may not be able to obtain the necessary approvals to sell shares of common stock below net asset value after that date. We may pay distributions from offering proceeds, borrowings or the sale of assets to the extent our cash flows from operations, net investment income or earnings are not sufficient to fund declared distributions. We may fund distributions from the uninvested proceeds of the sale of shares of our common stock and borrowings, and we have not established limits on the amount of funds we may use from such proceeds or borrowings to make any such distributions. We have paid and may continue to pay distributions from the sale of assets to the extent distributions exceed our earnings or cash flows from operations. Distributions from the proceeds of the sale of shares of our common stock or from borrowings could reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in our portfolio companies. A stockholder’s interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of an investment in us. Our investors do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue 450,000,000 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our charter, a majority of our entire board of directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of stock without stockholder approval. After an investor purchases shares, our board of directors may elect to sell additional shares in the future, issue equity interests in private offerings or issue share-based awards to our independent directors or employees of FB Advisor. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after an investor purchases our shares, an investor’s percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our investments, an investor may also experience dilution in the book value and fair value of his or her shares. Stockholders may experience dilution in their ownership percentage if they do not participate in our distribution reinvestment plan. All distributions declared in cash payable to stockholders that are participants in our distribution reinvestment plan are generally automatically reinvested in shares of our common stock. As a result, stockholders that do not participate in the distribution reinvestment plan may experience dilution over time. On February 19, 2014, we notified stockholders that we planned to terminate our distribution reinvestment plan in 48 Table of Contents contemplation of, and subject to, the potential listing of our shares of common stock on the NYSE. Subject to applicable legal restrictions and the discretion of our board of directors, we expect to adopt a new distribution reinvestment plan following and in connection with the listing of our shares of common stock on the NYSE. Stockholders who do not participate in any new distribution reinvestment plan may experience accretion to the net asset value of their shares if our shares are trading at a premium to net asset value and dilution if our shares are trading at a discount to net asset value. The level of accretion or discount would depend on various factors, including the proportion of our stockholders who participate in the plan, the level of premium or discount at which our shares are trading and the amount of the distribution payable to a stockholder. If our current distribution reinvestment plan is terminated and pending the adoption of a new distribution reinvestment plan, stockholders that had elected to participate in the earlier distribution reinvestment plan will receive cash rather than shares of common stock in respect of any cash distribution we declare. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws as well as provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. The Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, and our charter and bylaws contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or making difficult a change in control of our company or the removal of our incumbent directors. Under the Business Combination Act of the MGCL, pursuant to which certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally to include any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding shares) or an affiliate thereof is prohibited for five years and thereafter is subject to special stockholder voting requirements, to the extent that such statute is not superseded by applicable requirements of the 1940 Act. However, our board of directors has adopted a resolution exempting from the Business Combination Act any business combination between us and any person to the extent that such business combination receives the prior approval of our board of directors, including a majority of our directors who are not interested persons as defined in the 1940 Act. Under the Control Share Acquisition Act of the MGCL, “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquirer, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act any and all acquisitions by any person of shares of our common stock, but such provision may be repealed at any time (before or after a control share acquisition). However, we will amend our bylaws to repeal such provision (so as to be subject to the Control Share Acquisition Act) only if our board of directors determines that it would be in our best interests and if the staff of the SEC does not object to our determination that our being subject to the Control Share Acquisition Act does not conflict with the 1940 Act. The Business Combination Act (if our board of directors should repeal the resolution) and the Control Share Acquisition Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. In addition, our board of directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our board of directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. Moreover, upon the listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, our charter will include provisions that classify our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms, as well as increase the vote and standard required to remove a director. These provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the value of our common stock. 49 Table of Contents The net asset value of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The net asset value and liquidity, if any, of the market for shares of our common stock may be significantly affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include: (i) changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; (ii) loss of RIC or BDC status; (iii) changes in earnings or variations in operating results; (iv) changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; (v) changes in accounting guidelines governing valuation of our investments; (vi) any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors; (vii) departure of our investment adviser or sub-adviser or certain of their respective key personnel; (viii) general economic trends and other external factors; and (ix) loss of a major funding source. The existence of a large number of outstanding shares and stockholders prior to completion of the listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange could negatively affect our stock price. As of February 27, 2014, we had 260,351,067 shares of common stock outstanding. Prior to a listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, which we expect to occur on the NYSE, subject to NYSE approval, in April 2014, or at such earlier or later time as our board of directors may determine, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors, the ability of stockholders to liquidate their investments was limited. Subsequent to a listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, a large volume of sales of these shares could decrease the prevailing market prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities in the future. Even if a substantial number of sales are not effected, the mere perception of the possibility of these sales could depress the market price of our common stock and have a negative effect on our ability to raise capital in the future. In addition, anticipated downward pressure on our common stock price due to actual or anticipated sales of common stock from this market overhang could cause some institutions or individuals to engage in short sales of our common stock, which may itself cause the price of our stock to decline. There is currently no public market for our common stock, and a market for our common stock may never develop, which could result in stockholders being unable to monetize their investment. Prior to a listing of our common stock on a national securities exchange, which we expect to occur on the NYSE, subject to NYSE approval, in April 2014, or at such earlier or later time as our board of directors may determine, taking into consideration market conditions and other factors, there has been no public market for our common stock. We cannot assure you that the listing will be successfully completed. We cannot assure you that the price of our common stock available in the public market will reflect our actual financial performance. We have applied to list our common stock on the NYSE under the symbol “FSIC.” Listing on the NYSE does not ensure that an actual market will develop for our common stock. Accordingly, no assurance can be given as to: • the likelihood that an active market for the stock will develop; • the liquidity of any such market; • the ability of our stockholders to sell their common stock; or • the price that our stockholders may obtain for their common stock. Even if an active trading market develops, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our stock price include: • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of publicly traded RICs, BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; 50 Table of Contents • changes in law, regulatory policies or tax guidelines, or interpretations thereof, particularly with respect to RICs or BDCs; • loss of our RIC status; • changes in our earnings or variations in our operating results; • changes in the value of our portfolio of investments; • any shortfall in revenue or net income or any increase in losses from levels expected by investors or securities analysts; • departure of FB Advisor’s or GDFM’s key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; • short-selling pressure with respect to shares of our common stock or BDCs generally; • future sales of our securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock or the conversion of such securities; • uncertainty surrounding the strength of the economy; • general economic trends and other external factors; and • loss of a major funding source. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. If our stock price fluctuates significantly, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. We may in the future determine to issue preferred stock, which could adversely affect the market value of our common stock. Upon a listing of shares of our common stock on a national securities exchange, the issuance of shares of preferred stock with dividend or conversion rights, liquidation preferences or other economic terms favorable to the holders of preferred stock could adversely affect the market price for our common stock by making an investment in the common stock less attractive. In addition, the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative. Payment of dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of preferred stock must take preference over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders, and holders of preferred stock are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference (other than convertible preferred stock that converts into common stock). In addition, under the 1940 Act, preferred stock constitutes a “senior security” for purposes of the requirement that asset coverage be at least 200%. Federal Income Tax Risks We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or to satisfy RIC distribution requirements. To qualify for and maintain RIC tax treatment under Subchapter M of the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. See “Item 1. Business—Taxation as a RIC.” • The Annual Distribution Requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are 51 Table of Contents subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act and may in the future become subject to certain financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, securities of other RICs, and other securities if such securities of any one issuer do not represent more than 5% of the value of our assets or more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of such issuer; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly-traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for or maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK interest or, in certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for tax purposes. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the Annual Distribution Requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the Annual Distribution Requirement necessary to qualify for and maintain RIC tax treatment under Subchapter M of the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for or maintain RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. 52 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 