ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report onForm 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Cyclical fluctuations in the primary aluminum industry cause variability in our earnings and cash flows. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, a cyclical commodity with prices subject to global market forces of supply and demand and other related factors. Such factors include speculative activities by market participants, production activities by competitors, political and economic conditions, and production costs in major production regions. A substantial increase in primary aluminum production capacity could further affect prices. Prices have been historically volatile. Over the past ten years, the average daily LME settlement price has ranged from a low of $0.56 per pound in November 2001 to a high of $1.49 per pound in July 2008. Beginning in the second half of 2008, global economic contraction severely impacted the aluminum industry. Driven by significant weakness in end-use markets such as housing and transportation, aluminum prices experienced a profound decline. During that contraction, the monthly average LME price dropped from a peak of $1.49 in July 2008, to a low of $0.57 in February 2009. The decline in LME price to levels at which our production cash costs were higher than our primary metal selling prices had a significant negative impact on our operating results. Though LME prices have risen to $1.12 as of December 31, 2010, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by significant declines in LME prices in the future. Although we have at times hedged our exposure to the volatility of LME prices since the Apollo Acquisition, we currently have no such hedges in place. If we do not undertake further hedging activities, we will continue to have price risk with respect to the unhedged portion of our primary aluminum shipments. A prolonged downturn in prices for primary aluminum could significantly reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies. In addition, we may enter into new hedging arrangements in the future, which may not be beneficial, depending on subsequent LME price changes, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are under no obligation under our senior secured credit facilities, our AcquisitionCo Notes or otherwise to enter into further hedging arrangements. Future market prices for aluminum could decline materially, reducing our revenues and cash flows. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” Our significant cost components, specifically our supply of alumina, which we own, and our New Madrid power contract are not tied to the LME price of aluminum. As a result, as the LME price decreases, we are at a competitive disadvantage to non-integrated primary aluminum producers and our profit margins are reduced which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A continued or renewed downturn in general economic conditions, as well as a downturn in the end-use markets for certain of our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A global recession and credit crisis began in late 2007 and continued through much of 2009. This crisis substantially impacted our upstream and downstream businesses. While the global market for our primary aluminum products has meaningfully recovered from its trough in early 2009 and the markets for our downstream products stabilized in the second half of 2009, a renewed decline in either the global primary aluminum market or the North American rolled products markets would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, global supply and demand for primary aluminum have fluctuated in part due to general economic and market conditions in the United States and other major global economies, including China. In addition, certain end-use markets for our rolled products, such as the housing, construction and transportation industries, experience demand cycles that are correlated to the general economic environment. Economic downturns in regional and global economies or a decrease in manufacturing activity in industries such as construction, packaging and consumer goods, all of which are sensitive to a number of factors outside our control, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of electrical power could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to losses associated with equipment shutdowns, which may be caused by the loss or interruption of electrical power to our facilities due to unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum, and any loss of power that causes an equipment shutdown can result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced. If this occurs, we may experience significant losses 14 Table of Contents if the pots are damaged and require repair or replacement, a process that could limit or shut down our production operations for a prolonged period of time. During the week of January 26, 2009, power supply to our New Madrid smelter was interrupted numerous times because of a severe ice storm in Southeastern Missouri, causing a loss of approximately 75% of the smelter capacity. Although the smelter returned to full operations by March 31, 2010, there can be no assurance that we will not ultimately experience shorter pot lives or higher failure rates as a result of damage from the equipment shutdown. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not address all causes of loss or cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses we may incur if our suppliers are unable to provide us with power during periods of unusually high demand. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy and our profitability may decline if energy costs rise. Electricity and natural gas are essential to our businesses, which are energy intensive. The costs of these resources can vary widely and unpredictably. The factors that affect our energy costs tend to be specific to each of our facilities. Electricity is the largest cost component at our New Madrid smelter and is a key factor to our long-term competitive position in the primary aluminum business. We have a power purchase agreement with Ameren Missouri, Missouri’s largest electric utility (“Ameren”), pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase substantially all of New Madrid’s electricity through May 2020. Ameren may increase the rates it charges its customers, including Noranda, with the approval of the Missouri Public Service Commission (“MoPSC”). On June 21, 2010, the MoPSC ruled on the power rate case filed by Ameren on July 24, 2009. The MoPSC’s ruling resulted in no significant change to the base electricity rate for the New Madrid smelter. The fuel adjustment clause resulted in additional fuel charges of $5.4 million recorded in cost of goods sold during the year ended December 31, 2010. Though we are not able to predict future fuel adjustment charges, as they are dependent on Ameren’s fuel costs and off system sales volume and prices, we expect the impact of fuel adjustment charges in 2011 to increase our integrated primary aluminum cash cost by 2 to 3 cents per pound for 2011. On September 3, 2010, Ameren filed a new rate case with the MoPSC seeking an 11% base rate increase. We expect a ruling on this request by July 29, 2011. The outcome of the rate case or any future rate cases Ameren may initiate could materially and adversely affect the competitiveness and long-term viability of our smelter as well as our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Electricity is also a key cost component at our rolling mill facilities. Electricity is purchased through medium-term contracts at industrial rates from regional utilities supplied through local distributors. If we are unable to obtain power at affordable rates upon expiration of these contracts, we may be forced to curtail or idle a portion of our production capacity, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Natural gas is the largest cost component at our Gramercy refinery and a key cost component at our rolling mill facilities. Our Gramercy refinery has contracts to guarantee secure supply from two suppliers at an index-based price. Our downstream business purchases natural gas on the open market. The price of natural gas can be particularly volatile. As a result, our natural gas costs may fluctuate dramatically, and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher natural gas costs on our cost of sales. Any substantial increases in energy costs could cause our operating costs to increase and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. At December 31, 2010, we are a party to forward swaps for natural gas, effectively fixing our cost for approximately 45% of our natural gas exposure through 2012. We will continue to have price risk with respect to the unhedged portion of our natural gas purchases. In addition, our actual future usage may be higher or lower than we estimated. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may be less effective than expected in reducing the economic variability of our future costs. Fuel is a substantial component of the cost structure at our St. Ann bauxite mining operation. Our fuel is provided under an indexed-based contract linked to the price of oil. Our fuel costs at St. Ann may fluctuate, and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher fuel costs. Changes in the index will have an impact on our cost structure. Any increases in fuel costs could cause our operating costs to increase and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may encounter increases in the cost of raw materials, which could cause our cost of goods sold to increase, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and limiting our operating flexibility. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our business. These raw materials consist principally of bauxite, alumina, primary aluminum, recycled aluminum and aluminum scrap; however, pricing volatility of other raw materials, including carbon products and caustic soda, may have a significant impact on our costs. If raw material prices increase we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of the increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of high raw materials costs through productivity improvements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Beginning in fourth quarter 2008 and continuing through second quarter 2009, the cost of alumina purchased from the Gramercy refinery exceeded the spot prices of alumina available from other sources. If such situations arise in the future, we may not 15 Table of Contents be able to decrease Gramercy’s production in response to changes in market forces and any such decreases will increase our unit costs and limit our ability to fully recover fixed costs. We may be forced to sell excess alumina at market prices that could be substantially lower than our cash cost of production, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During 2010, we sold approximately 40% of St. Ann’s bauxite production to Sherwin Alumina Company pursuant to a contract that extends through 2012. Margins from these sales effectively reduce the net cost of bauxite to Gramercy. In the event Sherwin Alumina Company is unable to honor that contract, or chooses not to extend the contract upon expiration, the net cost of our bauxite could increase, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Prices for the raw materials used by our downstream business, including primary aluminum, recycled aluminum and alloying elements, are subject to continuous volatility and may increase from time to time. Our sales are generally made on the basis of a “margin over metal price,” but if raw material costs other than metal increase we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of the increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of high raw materials costs through productivity improvements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, a sustained material increase in raw materials prices may cause some of our customers to substitute other materials for our products. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. We are engaged in a highly competitive industry. We compete with a number of large, well-established companies in each of the markets in which we operate. Our primary aluminum products segment competes with a large number of other value-added metals producers on an international, national, regional and local basis. We also compete, to a much lesser extent, with primary metals producers, who typically sell to very large customers requiring regular shipments of large volumes of metals. Our flat rolled products segment competes in the production and sale of rolled aluminum products with a number of other aluminum rolling mills, including large, single-purpose sheet mills, continuous casters and other multi-purpose mills. Aluminum also competes with other materials, such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications. In the past, for certain applications customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. In both businesses, some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and technical resources than we do. These larger competitors may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. Similarly, competitors with superior cost positions to ours, particularly those competitors that operate smelters with access to relatively lower cost production inputs, may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. In the event that the current competitive smelter cost landscape changes such that other smelters see stability or reductions in their major input costs and/or we see increases in ours, the long-term viability of our smelter could be compromised. A current or new competitor may also add or build new capacity, which could diminish our profitability by decreasing the equilibrium prices in our markets. New competitors could emerge from within North America or globally, including in China and the Middle East. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our flat rolled products segment competes with other rolled products suppliers, principally multi-purpose mills, on the basis of quality, price, and timeliness of delivery, technological innovation and customer service. One primary competitive factor, particularly in the flat rolled business, is price. We may be required in the future to reduce fabrication prices or shift our production to products that generally yield lower fabrication prices in order to remain at full capacity, which could impact our level of profitability. In addition, technological innovation is important to our customers and if we are unable to lead or effectively meet new innovations to meet our customers’ needs, such as down-gauging, our financial performance could be materially and adversely impacted. Increased competition in any of our businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Aluminum may become less competitive with alternative materials, which could reduce our share of industry sales, lower our selling prices and reduce our sales volumes. Aluminum competes with other materials such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass for various applications. Higher aluminum prices relative to substitute materials tend to make aluminum products less competitive with these alternative materials. Environmental or other regulations may increase our costs and be passed on to our customers, making our products less competitive. The willingness of customers to accept aluminum substitutes, or the ability of large customers to exert leverage in the marketplace to affect pricing for fabricated aluminum products, could result in a reduced share of industry sales or reduced prices for our products and services, which could decrease revenues or reduce volumes, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we were to lose order volumes from any of our largest customers, our revenues and cash flows could be materially reduced. Our business is exposed to risks related to customer concentration. In 2010, our ten largest customers were responsible for 36% of our consolidated revenues. In 2010, no one customer accounted for more than 8% of our consolidated revenues. A loss of order volumes from or a loss of industry share by, any major customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. In addition, our customers may become 16 Table of Contents involved in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or default on their obligations to us. Our balance sheet reflected an allowance for doubtful accounts totaling $0.2 million at December 31, 2009 and 2010. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with a significant majority of our customers, and our revenues and cash flows could be reduced if our customers switch their suppliers. A significant majority of our customer contracts have a term of one year or less, although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers. Many of our customers purchase products and services from us on a purchase order basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products and services. The loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could have a material and adverse impact on our sales volume and business, or cause us to reduce our prices, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. Our operations are capital intensive. Our capital expenditures were $51.6 million, $46.7 million and $61.3 million for 2008, 2009, and 2010 respectively. On a pro forma basis assuming 100% ownership for Gramercy and St. Ann, capital expenditures would have been $82.2 million and $52.3 million for 2008 and 2009, respectively. We may not generate sufficient operating cash flows and our external financing sources may not be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to make required capital expenditures, service or refinance our indebtedness or fund other liquidity needs. If we are unable to make upgrades or purchase new plant and equipment, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by higher maintenance costs, lower sales volumes due to the impact of reduced product quality and other competitive influences. We may be materially and adversely affected by environmental, safety, production and product regulations or concerns. Our operations are subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to waters, the generation, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, land reclamation and employee health and safety matters. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can be costly, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs, including capital expenditures, to comply with these requirements. Additionally, certain of our raw material suppliers may be subject to significant compliance costs, which may be passed through to us. As these direct or indirect regulatory costs increase and are passed through to our customers, our products may become less competitive than other materials, which could reduce our sales. If we are unable to comply with environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and civil or criminal sanctions, or costs associated with upgrades to our facilities or changes in our manufacturing processes in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, environmental requirements change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot predict what environmental laws or regulations will be enacted or amended in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced, or the amount of future expenditures that may be required to comply with such laws or regulations. Our costs of compliance with current and future environmental requirements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as an owner and operator of real property and a generator of hazardous waste, we may be subject to environmental cleanup liability, regardless of fault, pursuant to Superfund or analogous state or non-U.S. laws. Thus, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs and costs arising from third-party property damage or personal injury claims, relating to environmental contamination at properties currently or formerly operated by us or at third-party sites at which wastes from our operations have been disposed. Contaminants have been discovered in the soil and/or groundwater at some of our facilities. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, because we use or process hazardous substances in our operations, we may be liable for personal injury claims or workers’ compensation claims relating to exposure to hazardous substances. We have identified certain environmental matters at both Gramercy and St. Ann, which are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements to the extent they represent liabilities as defined by U.S. GAAP. There could be other significant environmental issues of which we are not aware. The occurrence of new environmental issues could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of our facilities are located in areas that have been subject to natural disasters. Future natural disasters in these areas could damage our facilities and disrupt our operations. Our aluminum smelter is located in New Madrid, Missouri on the banks of the Mississippi River and near the New Madrid fault line, in an area that may be subject to natural disasters such as floods, tornados, ice storms and earthquakes. As experienced during the January 2009 ice storm and subsequent power outages at our New Madrid facility, when such a disaster occurs, it can damage the facility in question and disrupt our production of aluminum. Our bauxite mine is located in St. Ann, Jamaica and our refinery is located in Gramercy, Louisiana, areas that may be exposed to hurricanes. In addition, our other facilities may be subject to natural disasters. We maintain insurance to protect us from events that may be caused by floods, earthquakes, tornados and hurricanes in amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance would be available on 17 Table of Contents a timely basis or adequate to completely reimburse us for the losses that might be sustained or to provide funds for the reconstruction of our facilities, and in any event such insurance would not enable us to immediately reconstruct our facilities to avoid a suspension or disruption of our business while reconstruction proceeded to completion or alternative sourcing was located. In addition, our hedging arrangements could require us to deliver aluminum even if we are unable to produce such aluminum, which could cause us to incur unexpected costs in purchasing aluminum on the open market. Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions that may adversely affect our performance. The production of aluminum is subject to unplanned events such as accidents, supply interruptions, transportation interruptions, human error, mechanical failure and other contingencies. Operational malfunctions or interruptions at one or more of our facilities could cause substantial losses in our production capacity. For example, during January 2009, an ice storm caused a power outage at our New Madrid smelter, causing a loss of approximately 75% of the smelter’s capacity. As such events occur; we may experience substantial business loss and the need to purchase one of our integrated raw materials at prices substantially higher than our normal cost of production, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our vertical integration may cause operational malfunctions or interruptions at a facility in our upstream business to materially and adversely affect the performance or operation of the facilities downstream of the interrupted facility. Such interruptions may harm our reputation among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We could experience labor disputes that disrupt our business. We are a party to six collective bargaining agreements that expire at various times within the next five years. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 1,600 of our employees (or 69%) were members of the following unions: the United Steelworkers of America (“USWA”); the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (“IAMAW”); the University and Allied Workers Union (“UAWU”); and the Union of Technical, Administrative and Supervisory Personnel (“UTASP”). We have completed the process of formalizing recognition of a third union at St. Ann with the Bustamante Industrial Trade Union (“BITU”). We are currently in negotiations to finalize terms of a three year agreement with the BITU. • The agreement with the USWA at our Gramercy refinery expired in September 2010, and on October 1, 2010, a new five year labor agreement with the USWA was ratified by the refinery’s union members. • The agreement at St. Ann with the UAWU expired on April 30, 2010. We are currently in negotiation to finalize the terms of a three year agreement with the UAWU. • The agreement at St. Ann with the UTASP expired in December 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we have not received a new claim and have not begun negotiations with the UTASP. • The agreement at our Newport rolling mill with the IAMAW expires in May 2011. • All other collective bargaining agreements expire within the next five years. As customary in Jamaican labor practices, unions generally submit claims subsequent to the expiration of the collective bargaining agreements. Until a new agreement is ratified, we continue to operate under the terms of the expired agreement, and, once signed, the new agreement is retroactive to the previous expiration date. As we renew bargaining agreements, labor negotiations may not conclude successfully and, in that case, may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor or may break down and result in work stoppages or labor disturbances, disrupting our operations. Any such cost increases, stoppages or disturbances could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by limiting plant production, sales volumes and profitability. Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in foreign countries. We have production activities outside the United States via our bauxite mining operations in St. Ann, Jamaica. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our non-U.S. operations. These risks include those associated with political or financial instability, expropriation, renegotiation or nullification of existing agreements, and changes in local government laws, regulations and policies, including those related to taxation, employment regulations and repatriation of earnings. While the impact of these factors is difficult to predict and beyond our control, any one or more of them could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition to the business risks inherent in operating outside the United States, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. 18 Table of Contents In addition, our revenues, expenses, cash flows and results of operations could be affected by actions in foreign countries that more generally affect the global market for primary aluminum, including inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems. Our operations and the commercial markets for our products could also be materially and adversely affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in countries engaged in the manufacture or consumption of aluminum products. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The loss of certain members of our management may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and other key employees. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our senior officers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Past and future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. We have grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses, including the transaction whereby we became sole owner of Gramercy and St. Ann during 2009. As part of our strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in business combinations, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, casualty and workers’ compensation insurance, but such insurance does not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental compliance or remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in our industries have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. In addition, the outage at our New Madrid smelter could have an impact on our ability in the future to obtain insurance at similar levels and costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial conditions, results of operations and cash flows. Future changes to healthcare legislation could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The 2011 changes required by Health Care Reform that will impact our healthcare plans include the following: (i) dependents up to age 26 can be covered under the health plans, (ii) lifetime dollar limits are removed on essential health benefits, and (iii) pre-existing condition exclusions are removed for individuals under age 19. While we currently judge that the changes required by the Health Care Reform will not have a material impact on our costs in 2011, future revisions and clarifications to the legislation could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operation and cash flows. Apollo controls us and its interests may conflict with or differ from your interests. Our equity sponsor, Apollo, beneficially owns approximately 64.2% of our common stock. As a result, Apollo has the power to elect all of our directors. Therefore, Apollo effectively has the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of our Board of Directors or our stockholders, including the approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets. In addition, following a reduction of the equity owned by Apollo to below 50% of our outstanding common stock, Apollo will retain the right to cause the Board of Directors to nominate a number of Apollo designees for the Board of Directors. Thus, Apollo will continue to be able to significantly influence or effectively control our decisions. The interests of Apollo could conflict with or differ from stockholder interests. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Apollo could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of Noranda or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that stockholders or debtholders may otherwise view favorably. If we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, Apollo may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that in their judgment could enhance their equity investment, even though these transactions might involve risk to our shareholders or debt holders. Additionally Apollo is in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and holds, and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in or provide advice to businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. Apollo may also pursue acquisitions that may be complementary to our business, and, 19 Table of Contents as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. A sale of a substantial number of shares of stock in the future by funds affiliated with Apollo could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from servicing our debt. As of December 31, 2010, our total indebtedness was $419.7 million. Based on the amount of indebtedness outstanding and interest rates at December 31, 2010, our annualized cash interest expense would be approximately $16.7 million, all of which represents interest expense on floating-rate obligations (and thus is subject to increase in the event interest rates were to rise), prior to any consideration of the impact of interest rate swaps. We issued additional indebtedness as payment for our interest due May 15, 2010 and November 15, 2010. Further, we have notified the trustee for bondholders of the AcquisitionCo Notes of our election to pay the May 15, 2011 interest payments estimated to be approximately $8.9 million by issuing additional indebtedness. For any period subsequent to May 15, 2011, Noranda AcquisitionCo must pay all interest in cash. Our subsidiaries’ ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on their and our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside their and our control. Our subsidiaries’ inability to generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy their and our debt obligations, or to refinance their and our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could require us and our subsidiaries to do one or more of the following: • raise additional capital through debt or equity issuances or both; • cancel or scale back current and future business initiatives; or • sell businesses or properties. Our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness; • limiting our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; • requiring our subsidiaries to dedicate a portion of their cash flow to payments on their and our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our less leveraged competitors; • limiting our ability to respond to business opportunities; and • subjecting us and our subsidiaries to restrictive covenants, which, if we and our subsidiaries fail to comply with, could result in an event of default under their and our debt which, if not cured or waived, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Restrictive covenants under the indenture governing our AcquisitionCo Notes and our senior secured credit facilities may adversely affect our operational flexibility. The indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes and our senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that could impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make loans, capital expenditures, acquisitions or investments; • sell assets including stock of subsidiaries; • create or incur liens; • merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and 20 Table of Contents • engage in certain business activities. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in our senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes or such future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The events of default contained in our existing indebtedness are customary for senior secured credit facilities and indentures of companies similar to the Company. Certain of such events of default-generally, defaults based on volitional acts that violate prohibitions on our taking certain actions such as incurring debt or paying dividends beyond permitted amounts are not subject to notice or cure periods. In the event of any default under the senior secured credit facilities, the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes or any future indebtedness, our and our subsidiaries’ debt holders and lenders: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us and our subsidiaries; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; • may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or • may prevent us and our subsidiaries from making debt service payments under our and our subsidiaries’ other agreements, any of which could result in an event of default under such agreements. See “Description of Certain Indebtedness.” Despite our indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could increase the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness. The indenture governing the AcquisitionCo Notes and our senior secured credit facilities contain restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, much of which could constitute secured or senior indebtedness. The more leveraged we and our subsidiaries become, the more we and our subsidiaries, and in turn our securityholders, become exposed to the risks described above under the heading “We have indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from servicing our debt.” Our variable-rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including the AcquisitionCo Notes and borrowings under the senior secured credit facilities, are subject to variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. See “Description of Certain Indebtedness.” If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase, resulting in a reduction of our net income, even though the amount borrowed remained the same. As of December 31, 2010, our outstanding indebtedness was $419.7 million. Based on this amount of indebtedness, if interest rates remained at December 31, 2010 levels, our annualized cash interest expense would be approximately $16.7 million, all of which represents interest expense on floating-rate obligations (and thus is subject to increase in the event interest rates rise), prior to any consideration of the impact of interest rate swaps. A 1% increase in the interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by $4.2 million, prior to any consideration of the impact of interest rate swaps. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 