ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risk factors set forth below as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report of Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we currently consider immaterial also may adversely affect us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business Delays in restoring our New Madrid smelter to its full production capacity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As a result of a major winter storm in Southeastern Missouri the week of January 26, 2009, our New Madrid, Missouri smelter facility experienced a power outage that damaged approximately 75% of New Madrid’s plant capacity. Based on preliminary information and management’s initial assessment, Noranda expects that the smelter could return to full production during the second half of 2009 with partial capacity phased in during the intervening months. Restoration of capacity could take longer if unforeseen issues arise with restart including but not limited to equipment damage and large-scale pot failure and rebuild. At this time, the cost associated with the outage is unknown, as we are still assessing the full impact on our operations. Delays in restoring capacity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We hold pot line freeze insurance covering up to $77.0 million of losses, which management expects to apply to costs of restoring and restarting the pot lines. We believe that insurance will cover a substantial portion, if not all, of the cost of restoring capacity; however, there can be no assurance that the full amount of the claim submitted by Noranda will be reimbursed, or reimbursed in a timely manner, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Cyclical fluctuations in the primary aluminum industry cause variability in our earnings and cash flows. Our operating results depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a cyclical commodity with prices subject to global market forces of supply and demand and other related factors such as speculative activities by market participants, production activities by competitors, political and economic conditions, as well as production costs in major production regions. A substantial increase in primary aluminum production capacity could further affect prices. Prices have been historically volatile. Over the past ten years, the average daily LME settlement price has ranged from a low of $0.52 per pound in 1999 to a high of $1.49 per pound in July 2008. In the second half of 2008, global economic contraction severely impacted the aluminum industry. Driven by significant weakness in end-use markets such as housing and automotive, aluminum prices experienced a profound decline. In addition, global inventories have grown to near record levels as market demand has continued to decline. The LME price dropped 49% in the last five months of 2008 to $0.65 per pound, to levels at which our production cash costs were higher than our primary metal selling prices. The decline in LME price has had a significant negative impact on our financial results. If LME prices do not increase, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Although we have entered into fixed price aluminum sales swaps to manage our exposure to the volatility of LME-based prices, we have hedged only 50% of our expected cumulative primary aluminum shipments through 2012. We also may terminate or restructure our current hedges or enter into new hedging arrangements in the future, which may not be beneficial, depending on subsequent LME price changes. Thus, changes in aluminum prices could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A prolonged downturn in prices for primary aluminum could significantly reduce the amount of cash available to us to meet our current obligations and fund our long-term business strategies. Our significant cost components, specifically our supply of alumina, which we own, and our New Madrid power contract are not tied to the LME price of aluminum. As a result, as the LME prices decrease, our profit margins are reduced which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents A downturn in general economic conditions, as well as a downturn in the end-use markets for certain of our products, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are currently in a significant economic crisis that has substantially impacted our upstream and downstream markets. Fourth quarter value-added primary and downstream volumes were down 30% and 12%, respectively, versus fourth quarter 2007. Continued decline in 2009 would have a corresponding negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Historically, global supply and demand for primary aluminum have fluctuated in part due to general economic and market conditions in the United States and other major global economies, including China. In addition, certain end-use markets for our rolled products, such as the housing, construction and transportation industries, experience demand cycles that are highly correlated to the general economic environment. Economic downturns in regional and global economies or a decrease in manufacturing activity in industries such as construction, packaging and consumer goods, all of which are sensitive to a number of factors outside our control, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Losses caused by disruptions in the supply of electrical power could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to losses associated with equipment shutdowns, which may be caused by the loss or interruption of electrical power to our facilities due to unusually high demand, blackouts, equipment failure, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. We use large amounts of electricity to produce primary aluminum, and any loss of power which causes an equipment shutdown can result in the hardening or “freezing” of molten aluminum in the pots where it is produced. If this occurs, we may experience significant losses if the pots are damaged and require repair or replacement, a process that could limit or shut down our production operations for a prolonged period of time. During the week of January 26, 2009, power supply to our New Madrid smelter was interrupted numerous times because of a severe ice storm in Southeastern Missouri. Although we had full capability to continue full production throughout the storm, our electricity suppliers’ inability to return power to the smelter in a timely fashion caused a loss of approximately 75% of the smelter capacity. We continue to assess the damage from this significant event. Delay in rebuilding and restarting from this event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. Certain of our insurance policies do not cover any losses we may incur if our suppliers are unable to provide us with power during periods of unusually high demand. Our operations consume substantial amounts of energy and our profitability may decline if energy costs rise. Electricity and natural gas are essential to our businesses, which are energy intensive. The costs of these resources can vary widely and unpredictably. The factors that affect our energy costs tend to be specific to each of our facilities. Electricity is a key cost component at our New Madrid smelter. We have a power purchase agreement with AmerenUE, pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase substantially all of New Madrid’s electricity through May 2020. AmerenUE must obtain the approval of the Missouri Public Service Commission to increase the rates that it charges. In January 2009, the Missouri Public Service Commission approved a rate increase and a fuel adjustment clause. The approved rate change increased our power costs by approximately 6%. The impact of an increase in our costs due to the fuel adjustment clause cannot be estimated at this time. Our electricity costs may increase further if AmerenUE applies for and is granted additional rate increases in the future. Missouri legislative bodies are currently considering legislation that would permit AmerenUE to include in its cost base financing costs for construction work in progress. The passage of such legislation could materially increase our New Madrid annual power costs. See Item 1. “Business—Primary Metal—Upstream Business—Raw Materials and Supply” and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Company Overview—Production Costs” for additional details. Electricity is also a key cost component at our rolling mill facilities. Electricity is purchased through medium-term contracts at competitive industrial rates from regional utilities supplied through local distributors. If we are unable to obtain power at affordable rates upon termination of these contracts, we may be forced to curtail or idle a portion of our production capacity, which would lower our revenues and adversely affect the profitability of our operations. Natural gas is the largest cost component at our Gramercy refinery and a key cost component at our rolling mill facilities. Our Gramercy refinery has contracts to guarantee secure supply from two suppliers at an index-based price. See Item 1. “Business—Primary Metal—Upstream Business—Raw Materials and Supply” for additional details. Our downstream business purchases natural gas on the open market. The price of natural gas can be particularly volatile. As a result, our natural gas costs may fluctuate dramatically, and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher natural gas costs on our cost of sales. Any substantial increases in energy costs could cause our operating costs to increase and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We enter into financial swaps to offset changes in natural gas prices. 16 Table of Contents Fuel is a substantial component of the cost structure at our St. Ann bauxite mine. Fuel is generally linked to the price of oil. Our fuel costs at St. Ann may fluctuate, and we may not be able to mitigate the effect of higher fuel costs. Our fuel is provided under an indexed-based contract. See Item 1. “Business-Primary Metal-Upstream Business-Raw Materials and Supply” for additional details. Changes in the index will have an impact on our cost structure. Any increases in fuel costs could cause our operating costs to increase and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may encounter increases in the cost of raw materials, which could cause our cost of goods sold to increase, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and limiting our operating flexibility. We require substantial amounts of raw materials in our business, consisting principally of bauxite, alumina, primary aluminum, recycled aluminum and aluminum scrap. We receive alumina at cost plus freight from our Gramercy refinery. The alumina that we receive from Gramercy is purchased under a take-or-pay contract. We are obligated to take receipt of our share of the alumina production at Gramercy, even if such amounts are in excess of our requirements. As costs increase at Gramercy, including natural gas prices, our cost of sales increases, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. This contract could potentially require us to sell excess alumina at market prices that could be substantially lower than our cash cost of production which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Prices for the raw materials used by our downstream business, including primary aluminum, recycled aluminum and alloying elements, are subject to continuous volatility and may increase from time to time. Our sales are generally made on the basis of a “margin over metal price,” but if other raw material prices increase we may not be able to pass on the entire cost of the increases to our customers or offset fully the effects of high raw materials costs through productivity improvements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, a sustained material increase in raw materials prices may cause some of our customers to substitute other materials for our products. Our hedging activities may not be effective in reducing the variability of our revenues. We have entered into derivative transactions related to a substantial portion of our expected primary aluminum shipment volumes through 2012, which enables us to receive a minimum price for such portion of our expected shipments. If we do not undertake further hedging activities, we will continue to have price risk with respect to the unhedged portion of our primary aluminum shipments. In addition, our actual future shipment volumes may be higher or lower than we estimated. Further, the derivative instruments we utilize for our hedging activities are based on posted market prices for primary aluminum, which may differ from the prices that we realize in our operations. As a result of these factors, our hedging activities may be less effective than expected in reducing the economic variability of our future revenues. We have hedged only 50% of our expected cumulative primary aluminum shipments through 2012. Our hedges, which are structured as fixed price aluminum sale swaps, had a value of $401.9 million at December 31, 2008. This derivative asset reflects the present value of the difference between the current forward price curve for aluminum and the price of our aluminum hedges. We are under no obligation under our existing senior secured credit facilities, our outstanding notes or otherwise to maintain our existing hedging arrangements or to enter into further hedging arrangements. Future market prices for aluminum could decline materially, reducing our revenues and cash flows. For additional information regarding our hedging activities, see Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk-Commodity Price Risks.” Subsequent to December 31, 2008, we entered into fixed price aluminum purchase swaps covering approximately 523.6 million pounds of aluminum purchases in 2010, 2011 and 2012 at approximately $0.75 per pound in order to lock in some of the asset value of our current hedges. This action is based on management’s expectation of higher future LME prices which would decrease the value of our current hedges. If management’s expectation proves incorrect, the hedges will not offset all of a decline in prices. This result could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We face risks relating to our joint ventures that we do not entirely control. Some of our activities are, and will in the future be, conducted through entities that we do not entirely control or wholly own. These entities include our Gramercy and St. Ann joint ventures. Risks we face in connection with these joint ventures include the following: • Under the governing documents for these joint ventures, we do not solely determine certain key matters, such as the timing and amount of cash distributions from these entities or the terms on which they supply us with raw material. As a result, our ability to generate cash from and set supply terms with these entities may be more restricted than if they were wholly owned entities. • In the event our joint venture partner is not able to meet its obligations under the governing documents, the activities of the joint ventures may be disrupted or we may be required to make significant cash investments in order to protect our interests. 17 Table of Contents • Pursuant to the agreement governing the joint ventures, we are currently in a period of renegotiation with our joint venture partner concerning the future of the joint ventures after December 31, 2010. These negotiations may not conclude successfully and, in that case, may result in changes in cost or supply of the raw materials that we purchase from these joint ventures. • We may be required to make cash contributions to the joint ventures on a regular basis in order to provide for their ongoing operational costs, maintenance capital expenditure and working capital needs. To the extent these needs exceed the joint ventures’ third-party revenues, we may be required to make a significant cash investment. • The agreements governing the joint ventures contain restrictions on our ability to transfer our interest in the joint ventures, including a right of first refusal to our joint venture partner, a requirement that the transferee have a minimum level of tangible net worth and other requirements. • St. Ann pays the GOJ according to a negotiated fiscal structure with multiple components. St. Ann is currently in the process of negotiating revisions to this fiscal structure. See Item 1. “Business-Primary Metal-Upstream Business-St. Ann Bauxite Mine.” Possible revisions could result in a net increase in our per pound net cash cost to produce primary aluminum. If this increase is substantial, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. • Approximately 50% of the bauxite mined at St. Ann is sold to a third-party. Revenues from these sales reduce the net cost of bauxite to Gramercy. We have a sales contract for 2009 and 2010 with this third-party purchaser. In the event the third-party purchaser is unable to honor that contract, or renew the contract after 2010, the cost of our bauxite could increase, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unable to continue to compete successfully in the highly competitive markets in which we operate. We are engaged in a highly fragmented and competitive industry. We compete with a number of large, well-established companies in each of the markets in which we operate. Our upstream business competes with a large number of other value-added metals producers on an international, national, regional and local basis. We also compete, to a much lesser extent, with primary metals producers, who typically sell to very large customers requiring regular shipments of large volumes of metals. Our downstream business competes in the production and sale of rolled aluminum products with a number of other aluminum rolling mills, including large, single-purpose sheet mills, continuous casters and other multi-purpose mills. Aluminum also competes with other materials, such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass, among others, for various applications. In the past, for certain applications customers have demonstrated a willingness to substitute other materials for aluminum. In both businesses, some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial and technical resources than we do. These larger competitors may be better able to withstand reductions in price or other adverse industry or economic conditions. A current or new competitor may also add or build new capacity, which could diminish our profitability by decreasing price. New competitors could emerge from within North America or globally, including China. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results from operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our downstream business competes with other rolled products suppliers, principally multi-purpose mills, on the basis of quality, price, timeliness of delivery, technological innovation and customer service. One primary competitive factor, particularly in the flat rolled business, is price. We may be required in the future to reduce fabrication prices or shift our production to products that generally yield lower fabrication prices in order to remain at full capacity, which could impact our level of profitability. In addition, technological innovation is important to our customers and if we are unable to lead or effectively meet new innovations to meet our customers’ needs, our financial performance could be materially and adversely impacted. Increased competition in any of our businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Due to the fall-off in demand of our upstream and downstream products in the fourth quarter of 2008, the competitive landscape has become more challenging. Although 2009 contract pricing has increased on average over 2008, spot pricing has declined. Without a recovery of demand in 2009, contract negotiations during 2009 for 2010 volume will be more difficult. Loss of volume during contract negotiations in a declining environment is a threat that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Aluminum may become less competitive with alternative materials, which could reduce our share of industry sales, lower our selling prices and reduce our sales volumes. Aluminum competes with other materials such as steel, copper, plastics, composite materials and glass for various applications. Higher aluminum prices relative to substitute materials tend to make aluminum products less competitive with these alternative materials. Environmental or other regulations may increase our costs and be passed on to our customers, making our products less competitive. The willingness of customers to accept aluminum substitutions, or the ability of large customers to exert leverage in the marketplace to affect pricing for fabricated aluminum products, could result in a reduced share of industry sales or reduced prices for our products and services, which could decrease revenues or reduce volumes, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents If we were to lose order volumes from any of our largest customers, our revenues and cash flows could be reduced. Our business is exposed to risks related to customer concentration. In 2008, our ten largest customers were responsible for 31% of our consolidated revenues. No one customer accounted for more than 5% of our consolidated revenues in 2008. A loss of order volumes from, or a loss of industry share by, any major customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by lowering sales volumes, increasing costs and lowering profitability. In addition, our customers may become involved in bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or default on their obligations to us. Our balance sheet reflected an allowance for doubtful accounts totaling $0.2 million at December 31, 2007 and $1.6 million at December 31, 2008. We do not have long-term contractual arrangements with a significant majority of our customers, and our revenues and cash flows could be reduced if our customers switch their suppliers. A significant majority of our customer contracts have a term of one year or less, although we have long-term relationships with many of our customers. Many of these customers purchase products and services from us on a purchase order basis and may choose not to continue to purchase our products and services. The loss of these customers or a significant reduction in their purchase orders could have a material and adverse impact on our sales volume and business, or cause us to reduce our prices, diminishing profitability. Our business requires substantial capital investments that we may be unable to fulfill. Our operations are capital intensive. Capital expenditures were $41.6 million, $41.9 million and $51.7 million for 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively, excluding our joint ventures. Including 50% of our joint ventures’ capital expenditures, capital expenditures were $53.0 million, $52.3 million and $66.5 million for 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We may not generate sufficient operating cash flows and our external financing sources may not be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to make anticipated capital expenditures, service or refinance our indebtedness or fund other liquidity needs. If we are unable to make upgrades or purchase new plant and equipment, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by higher maintenance costs, lower sales volumes due to the impact of reduced product quality and other competitive influences. We may be materially and adversely affected by environmental, safety, production and product regulations or concerns. Our operations are subject to a wide variety of U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental laws and regulations, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to waters, the generation, use, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes and employee health and safety matters. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations can be costly, and we have incurred and will continue to incur costs, including capital expenditures, to comply with these requirements. As these regulatory costs increase and are passed through to our customers, our products may become less competitive than other materials, which could reduce our sales. If we are unable to comply with environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs, including fines and civil or criminal sanctions, or costs associated with upgrades to our facilities or changes in our manufacturing processes in order to achieve and maintain compliance. In addition, environmental requirements change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. We cannot predict what environmental laws or regulations will be enacted or amended in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be interpreted or enforced, or the amount of future expenditures that may be required to comply with such laws or regulations. Our costs of compliance with current and future environmental requirements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as an owner and operator of real property and a generator of hazardous waste, we may be subject to environmental cleanup liability, regardless of fault, pursuant to Superfund or analogous state or non-U.S. laws. Thus, we could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs and costs arising from third-party property damage or personal injury claims, relating to environmental contamination at properties currently or formerly operated by us or at third-party sites at which wastes from our operations have been disposed. Contaminants have been discovered in the soil and/or groundwater at some of our facilities. The discovery of additional contaminants or the imposition of additional cleanup obligations at these or other sites could result in significant liability. In addition, because we use or process hazardous substances in our operations, we may be liable for personal injury claims or workers’ compensation claims relating to exposure to hazardous substances. Xstrata has agreed to indemnify us through May 2010 from certain environmental liabilities relating to Xstrata’s operation of the business. If Xstrata becomes unable to, or otherwise does not, comply with its indemnity obligations, or if certain environmental conditions or other liabilities for which we are obligated are not subject to indemnification, we could be subject to significant unforeseen liabilities. 19 Table of Contents Some of our facilities are located in areas that have been subject to natural disasters. Future natural disasters in these areas could damage our facilities and disrupt our operations. Our aluminum smelter is located in New Madrid, Missouri on the banks of the Mississippi River and near the New Madrid fault line, in an area that may be subject to natural disasters such as floods, tornados, ice storms and earthquakes. As experienced during the January 2009 ice storm and subsequent power outages at our New Madrid facility, when such a disaster occurs, it can damage the facility in question and disrupt our production of aluminum. Our bauxite mine is located in St. Ann, Jamaica and our refinery is located in Gramercy, Louisiana, areas that may be exposed to hurricanes. In addition, our other facilities may be subject to natural disasters. We maintain insurance to protect us from events that may be caused by floods, earthquakes, tornados and hurricanes in amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and sufficient to protect our interests. There can be no assurance, however, that such insurance would be available on a timely basis or adequate to completely reimburse us for the losses that might be sustained or to provide funds for the reconstruction of our facilities, and in any event such insurance would not enable us to immediately reconstruct our facilities to avoid a suspension or disruption of our business while reconstruction proceeded to completion or alternative sourcing was located. In addition, our hedging arrangements could require us to deliver aluminum even if we are unable to produce such aluminum, which could cause us to incur unexpected costs in purchasing aluminum on the open market. Our business is subject to unplanned business interruptions which may adversely affect our performance. The production of aluminum is subject to unplanned events such as accidents, supply interruptions, transportation interruptions, human error, mechanical failure and other contingencies. Operational malfunctions or interruptions at one or more of our facilities could cause substantial losses in our production capacity. For example, during January 2009, an ice storm caused a power outage at our New Madrid smelter, causing a loss of approximately 75% of the smelter’s capacity. As such events occur, we may experience substantial business loss and the need to purchase one of our integrated raw materials at prices substantially higher than our normal cost of production, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, our vertical integration may cause operational malfunctions or interruptions at an upstream facility to materially and adversely affect the performance or operation of our downstream facilities. Such interruptions may harm our reputation among actual and potential customers, potentially resulting in a loss of business. Although we maintain property and business interruption insurance to mitigate losses resulting from catastrophic events, we may be required to pay significant amounts under the deductible provisions of those insurance policies. In addition, our coverage may not be sufficient to cover all losses, or may not cover certain events. To the extent these losses are not covered by insurance, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We could experience labor disputes that disrupt our business. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 66% of our employees are represented by unions or equivalent bodies and are covered by collective bargaining or similar agreements which are subject to periodic renegotiation. Collective bargaining agreements for all of our union employees expire within the next five years. A new collective bargaining agreement at our Newport rolling mill, where approximately 120 employees are represented by the International Association of Machinists, became effective on June 1, 2008. Two collective bargaining agreements at our St. Ann joint venture expired in 2007. Consistent with Jamaican labor practices, negotiations with each union were protracted. As of the date of this report, our UAWU contract is still unresolved and is in arbitration at the Industrial Disputes Tribunal. We have occasionally experienced brief work slowdowns in connection with these negotiations. The contract at the Salisbury plant expires in the fourth quarter of 2009. Labor negotiations may not conclude successfully and, in that case, may result in a significant increase in the cost of labor or may break down and result in work stoppages or labor disturbances, disrupting our operations. Any such cost increases, stoppages or disturbances could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows by limiting plant production, sales volumes and profitability. Our operations have been and will continue to be exposed to various business and other risks, changes in conditions and events beyond our control in foreign countries. We are, and will continue to be, subject to financial, political, economic and business risks in connection with our non-U.S. operations. We have made investments and carry on production activities outside the United States via our joint venture bauxite mining operations in St. Ann, Jamaica. In addition to the business risks inherent in operating outside the United States, economic conditions may be more volatile, legal and regulatory systems less developed and predictable and the possibility of various types of adverse governmental action more pronounced. In addition, our revenues, expenses, cash flows and results of operations could be affected by actions in foreign countries that more generally affect the global market for primary aluminum, including inflation, fluctuations in currency and interest rates, competitive factors, civil unrest and labor problems. Our operations and the commercial markets for our products could also be materially and adversely 20 Table of Contents affected by acts of war, terrorism or the threat of any of these events as well as government actions such as controls on imports, exports and prices, tariffs, new forms of taxation or changes in fiscal regimes and increased government regulation in countries engaged in the manufacture or consumption of aluminum products. Unexpected or uncontrollable events or circumstances in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. The loss of certain members of our management may have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on the efforts of our senior management and other key employees. These individuals possess sales, marketing, engineering, manufacturing, financial and administrative skills that are critical to the operation of our business. If we lose or suffer an extended interruption in the services of one or more of our senior officers, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, the market for qualified individuals may be highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Past and future acquisitions or divestitures may adversely affect our financial condition. We have grown partly through the acquisition of other businesses, including our joint venture businesses acquired in 2004. As part of our strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions, divestitures or strategic alliances, which may not be completed or, if completed, may not be ultimately beneficial to us. There are numerous risks commonly encountered in business combinations, including the risk that we may not be able to complete a transaction that has been announced, effectively integrate businesses acquired or generate the cost savings and synergies anticipated. Failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The insurance that we maintain may not fully cover all potential exposures. We maintain property, casualty and workers’ compensation insurance, but such insurance does not cover all risks associated with the hazards of our business and is subject to limitations, including deductibles and maximum liabilities covered. We may incur losses beyond the limits, or outside the coverage, of our insurance policies, including liabilities for environmental compliance or remediation. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for companies in our industries have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. In the future, we may not be able to obtain coverage at current levels, and our premiums may increase significantly on coverage that we maintain. For example, our $77.0 million pot line freeze coverage may not cover all of our losses of the outage caused by the January 2009 ice storm. In addition, the outage may have an impact on our ability in the future to obtain insurance at similar levels and costs which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Neither our historical nor our pro forma financial information may be representative of results we would have achieved as an independent company or our future results. Certain of the historical financial information we have included in this filing has been derived from Noranda Aluminum, Inc.’s predecessor and pre-predecessor consolidated financial statements and does not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial position or cash flows would have been had we been an independent company during the periods presented. For this reason, as well as the inherent uncertainties of our business, the historical financial information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial position, cash flows or costs and expenses will be in the future. Although our pro forma adjustments reflect certain changes that have occurred in our capital and cost structure as a result of the acquisition by Apollo and other adjustments, they do not necessarily indicate the actual changes in capital and cost structure that may follow from the acquisition by Apollo and as we operate as an independent company. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Indebtedness We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations under the notes and may otherwise restrict our activities. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $1,346.6 million (net of unamortized discount of $1.8 million). Based on the amount of indebtedness outstanding and interest rates at December 31, 2008, our annualized cash interest expense is approximately $74.2 million, all of which represents interest expense on floating-rate obligations (and thus is subject to increase in the event interest rates were to rise), prior to any consideration of the impact of interest rate swaps. Of this amount, we have the right under the applicable indebtedness to pay approximately $52.0 million by issuing additional indebtedness rather than in cash. In the event we exercise such right, our debt will increase. Our subsidiaries’ ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on their and our debt depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside their and our control. Our subsidiaries’ inability to generate cash flow sufficient to satisfy their and our debt obligations, or to refinance their and our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and could require us and our subsidiaries to do one or more of the following: • raise additional capital through debt or equity issuances or both; • cancel or scale back current and future business initiatives; or • sell businesses or properties. Our and our subsidiaries’ substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness; • limiting our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other corporate purposes; • requiring our subsidiaries to dedicate a substantial portion of their cash flow to payments on their and our indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, product development and other corporate requirements; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our less leveraged competitors; • limiting our ability to respond to business opportunities; and • subjecting us and our subsidiaries to restrictive covenants, which, if we and our subsidiaries fail to comply with these covenants, could result in an event of default under their and our debt which, if not cured or waived, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because Noranda HoldCo is the sole obligor on the HoldCo notes, and its subsidiaries do not guarantee its obligations under the HoldCo notes or have any obligation with respect to the HoldCo notes, the HoldCo notes are structurally subordinated to the debt and liabilities of its subsidiaries and joint ventures. Noranda HoldCo has no operations of its own and derives all of its revenues and cash flow from its subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries and joint ventures are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any amounts due pursuant to the HoldCo notes, or to make any funds available therefore, whether by dividends, loans, distributions or other payments. As of December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of indebtedness and other liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade payables) structurally senior to the HoldCo notes was approximately $1,679.3 million. Further, approximately $25.0 million was undrawn under the existing senior secured credit facilities and our subsidiaries are liable with respect to any liabilities we may incur in connection with our hedging activities (discussed below). We had $7.0 million in outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2008, which reduced our availability under the existing senior secured credit facilities to $18.0 million. Holders of the HoldCo notes will not have any claim as creditors against our subsidiaries or joint ventures. None of our subsidiaries or joint ventures guarantee our obligations under the HoldCo notes. The HoldCo notes are structurally subordinated to any existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of any of our subsidiaries and joint ventures, even if those obligations do not constitute indebtedness. Any right that we have to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries and joint ventures upon the liquidation or reorganization of those subsidiaries and joint ventures, and the consequent rights of holders of the HoldCo notes to realize proceeds from the sale of any of those subsidiaries’ and joint ventures’ assets, will be effectively subordinated to the claims of those entities’ creditors, including holders of existing notes, lenders under the existing senior secured facilities, trade creditors and holders of preferred equity interests of those entities. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of our subsidiaries or joint ventures, these entities will pay the holders of their debts, 22 Table of Contents holders of preferred equity interests and their trade creditors before they will be able to distribute any of their assets to us. Moreover, Noranda HoldCo is a guarantor of the existing senior secured credit facilities and the AcquisitionCo notes, and as such, is an obligor of any indebtedness outstanding under such credit facilities and notes and has pledged all of its equity interests in Noranda AcquisitionCo to secure its obligations under the existing senior secured credit facilities. As of December 31, 2008, there was a $393.5 million term B loan outstanding, $225.0 million revolving credit facility outstanding, and $18.0 million available for borrowing under the existing senior secured credit facilities. Accordingly, there might only be a limited amount of assets available to satisfy your claims as a holder of the HoldCo notes upon an acceleration of the maturity of the HoldCo notes. We cannot assure you that if our subsidiaries and joint ventures have their debt accelerated we will be able to repay the HoldCo notes. We also cannot assure you that our and our subsidiaries’ assets will be sufficient to fully repay the HoldCo notes and our subsidiaries’ other indebtedness. Restrictive covenants under the indentures governing the notes and the existing senior secured credit facilities may adversely affect our operational flexibility. The terms of the indentures governing the notes and the existing senior secured credit facilities contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including restrictions on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; • repurchase or redeem capital stock; • make loans, capital expenditures, acquisitions or investments; • sell assets including stock of subsidiaries; • create or incur liens; • merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; and • engage in certain business activities. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. A failure to comply with the covenants contained in the existing senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes or any future indebtedness could result in an event of default under the existing senior secured credit facilities, the indentures governing the notes or such future indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of any default under the existing senior secured credit facilities, the indentures governing the notes or our other indebtedness, our and our subsidiaries’ debt holders and lenders: • will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us and our subsidiaries; • could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable; • may have the ability to require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or • may prevent us and our subsidiaries from making debt service payments under our and our subsidiaries’ other agreements, including the indentures governing the notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the notes. If the indebtedness under the existing senior secured credit facilities or our other indebtedness, including the notes, were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our and our subsidiaries’ assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. Despite our substantial indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur significantly more debt. This could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness. The terms of the indentures governing the notes contain, and the existing senior secured credit facilities contain, restrictions on our and/or our subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. These restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we and our subsidiaries could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, much of which could constitute secured or senior indebtedness. At December 31, 2008, Noranda AcquisitionCo had $18.0 million available for additional borrowing and potential letters of credit under the existing revolving credit facility, all of which would be secured. The more leveraged we and our subsidiaries become, the more we and our subsidiaries, and in turn our security holders, become exposed to the risks described above under “—We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations under the notes and may otherwise restrict our activities.” 23 Table of Contents Repayment of our debt, including the notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Noranda AcquisitionCo is the issuer of the Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2015, and Noranda HoldCo is the issuer of the Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2014, collectively referred to as the “Issuers”. The Issuers are holding companies with no operations or assets of their own. Our subsidiaries and joint ventures own all of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness, including the notes, is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and joint ventures and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries and joint ventures may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the notes. Each subsidiary and joint venture is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from them. The terms of the existing senior secured credit facilities and the terms of the indentures governing the notes significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. The terms of each of those debt instruments provide our subsidiaries with “baskets” that can be used to make certain types of “restricted payments,” including dividends or other distributions to us. For example, pursuant to the indenture governing the AcquisitionCo notes, the ability of Noranda AcquisitionCo and its subsidiaries to make such payments is governed by a formula based on 50% of its consolidated net income (as defined in such indenture). In addition, as a condition to making such payments to Noranda HoldCo based on such formula, Noranda AcquisitionCo must have a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 2.0 to 1 after giving effect to any such payments. We cannot assure you that our subsidiaries will have sufficient payment capacity under the existing senior secured credit facilities or the notes in order to make funds available to us to pay interest on the notes or make payments upon a change of control or payments at the maturity of the notes. In particular, the HoldCo notes mature earlier than the AcquisitionCo notes, and there is no assurance that we will have sufficient capacity under our baskets for the AcquisitionCo notes to repay the principal amount of the HoldCo notes due at maturity. In addition, the terms of any future indebtedness incurred by us or any of our subsidiaries may include additional restrictions on our and their ability to make funds available to us to make payments on the notes, which may be more restrictive than those contained in the terms of the existing senior secured credit facilities or the existing notes. In the event the Issuers do not have sufficient cash available to make any required payments on the notes, with respect to interest payments, they may elect to pay AcquisitionCo PIK interest and/or HoldCo PIK interest, or in the case of interest or other payments they and their subsidiaries will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing all of their and their subsidiaries’ indebtedness, obtaining the consents from the lenders in respect of that indebtedness, selling equity securities or seeking capital contributions from their affiliates. None of their affiliates is obligated to make any capital contributions, loans or other payments to them with respect to their obligations on the notes. Further, we cannot assure you that any of the foregoing actions could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that any of the foregoing actions would enable us to refinance our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness or pay the required amounts on the notes, or that any such actions would be permitted by the terms of the indentures governing the notes or the terms of any other debt of ours or our subsidiaries then in effect. While the indentures governing the notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries and joint ventures to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries or joint ventures, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the notes. Our variable-rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our annual debt service obligations to increase significantly. Substantially all of our and our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including the notes and borrowings under the existing senior secured credit facilities, are subject to variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase, resulting in a reduction of our net income, even if the amount borrowed remains the same. As of December 31, 2008, outstanding debt was $1,346.6 million. A 1% increase in the interest rate would increase our annual interest expense by $13.5 million, prior to any consideration of the impact of interest rate swaps. 24 Table of Contents If we or our subsidiaries default on obligations to pay other indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on the notes. Any default under the agreements governing our or our subsidiaries’ indebtedness, including a default under the existing senior secured credit facilities that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness could prohibit us from making payments of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the notes and could substantially decrease the market value of the notes. If we and our subsidiaries are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, or interest on our and their indebtedness, or if we or our subsidiaries otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our and their indebtedness (including the existing senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes), we and our subsidiaries could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. More specifically, the lenders under the existing revolving credit facility could elect to terminate their commitments and cease making further loans, such lenders along with the lenders under the existing term loan could institute foreclosure proceedings against our and our subsidiaries’ assets, and we and our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may in the future need to seek waivers from the required lenders under the existing senior secured credit facilities to avoid being in default. If we and our subsidiaries breach the covenants under the existing senior secured credit facilities and seek a waiver, we and our subsidiaries may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we and our subsidiaries would be in default under the existing senior secured credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights as described above, and we and our subsidiaries could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. The Issuers have no operations of their own and conduct their operations through their operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. As a result, we depend on those entities for dividends and other payments to generate the funds necessary to meet our financial obligations, including payments on our indebtedness. We cannot be certain that our earnings and the earnings of our operating subsidiaries will be sufficient to allow us to make payments in respect of the notes and meet our other obligations. Our subsidiaries’ ability to generate cash from operations will depend upon, among other things: • their future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond their control; and • the future availability of borrowings under the existing senior secured credit facilities, which depends on, among other things, complying with the covenants in the existing senior secured credit facilities. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available to us under the existing senior secured credit facilities or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs, including the payment of principal and interest on the notes. See “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” and Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If our and our subsidiaries’ cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our and our subsidiaries’ business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements, including the existing senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes, may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Also, Apollo has no continuing obligation to provide us or our subsidiaries with debt or equity financing. Federal and state statutes may allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the notes and/or the guarantees and require noteholders to return payments received. The issuance of the notes and the incurrence of the guarantees of the notes may be subject to review under federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes in a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or if a lawsuit, including under circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by us or on behalf of our unpaid creditors. Under the federal bankruptcy laws and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer and fraudulent conveyance laws, a court may void or otherwise decline to enforce 25 Table of Contents the notes and/or the guarantees or a court may subordinate the notes and/or the guarantees to the Issuers’ and their subsidiaries’ existing and future indebtedness. While the relevant laws may vary from state to state, a court might void or otherwise decline to enforce the notes or the guarantees if it found that when the notes were issued or the guarantees were incurred, or, in some states, when payments became due under the notes or the guarantees, an Issuer or any of the guarantors received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and either: • the applicable Issuer or guarantor was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; or • the applicable Issuer or guarantor was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or • the applicable Issuer or guarantor intended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature; or • the applicable Issuer or guarantor was a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against it if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. A court might also void the notes or guarantees without regard to the above factors, if it found that an Issuer or guarantor, as applicable, issued the notes or incurred a guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud our creditors. A court would likely find that an Issuer or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the notes or such a guarantee if it did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the notes or the applicable guarantee. As a general matter, value is given for a note if, in exchange for the note, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is satisfied. A debtor may not be considered to have received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor. The measures of insolvency for purposes of fraudulent conveyance laws vary depending upon the law of the particular jurisdiction that is being applied. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including subordinated and contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair saleable value of its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including subordinated and contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not an Issuer or a guarantor was solvent at the relevant time, or regardless of the standard used, that the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees would not be subordinated to our other debt. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent conveyance or transfer has occurred, the court may void, or hold unenforceable, the notes and/or the guarantees, which could mean that you may not receive any payments on the notes and the court may direct you to repay any amounts that you have already received from the Issuers and the guarantors for the benefit of their creditors. Furthermore, the holders of voided notes would cease to have any direct claim against the Issuers and the guarantors. Consequently, each Issuer’s assets would be applied first to satisfy its other liabilities, before any portion of its assets could be applied to the payment of the notes. Sufficient funds to repay the notes may not be available from other sources. Moreover, the voidance of the notes could result in an event of default with respect to its other debt that could result in acceleration of such debt (if not otherwise accelerated due to insolvency or other proceedings). Although each guarantee entered into by a subsidiary will contain a provision intended to limit that guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, such a provision may not be effective to protect those guarantees from being voided under fraudulent transfer law, or it may reduce that guarantor’s obligation to an amount that effectively makes its guarantee worthless. Certain restrictive covenants in the indentures governing the notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings. Most of the restrictive covenants in the indentures governing the notes will not apply if and for so long as the notes achieve investment grade ratings from Moody’s and S&P and no default or event of default has occurred. If these restrictive covenants cease to apply, we may take actions, such as incurring additional debt, undergoing a change of control transaction or making certain dividends or distributions that would otherwise be prohibited under, or would otherwise require a prepayment offer to noteholders under, the indentures governing the notes. Ratings are given by these rating agencies based upon analyses that include many subjective factors. We cannot assure you that the notes will (or will not) achieve investment grade ratings, nor can we assure you that investment grade ratings, if granted, will reflect all of the factors that would be important to holders of the notes. 26 Table of Contents Our ability to generate the significant amount of cash needed to pay interest and principal on the notes and service our other debt and our ability to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations under, our debt will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial and business factors, many of which may be beyond our control, including those described under “—Risks Related to Our Business” above. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek to obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. In the future, our cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our debt, and such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The existing senior secured revolving credit facility will mature in 2013 and the existing senior secured term loan facility will mature in 2014. As a result, we may be required to refinance any outstanding amounts under those facilities prior to the maturity dates of the notes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing. As a result, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. The existing senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes will restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such dispositions. We cannot assure you we will be able to consummate any sales of assets, or if we do, what the timing of such sales will be or whether the proceeds that we realize will be adequate to meet debt service obligations when due. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 