1A. Risk Factors—Federal Income Tax Risks—We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code or to satisfy RIC distribution requirements.” The time and resources that individuals employed by FB Advisor and GDFM devote to us may be diverted and we may face additional competition due to the fact that individuals employed by FB Advisor and GDFM are not prohibited from raising money for or managing another entity that makes the same types of investments that we target. Neither FB Advisor nor GSO are prohibited from raising money for and managing another investment entity that makes the same types of investments as those we target. As a result, the time and resources that these individuals may devote to us may be diverted. In addition, we may compete with any such investment entity for the same investors and investment opportunities. If we are able to obtain exemptive relief from the SEC, we also intend to co-invest with any such investment entity to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act, or the rules and regulations thereunder. There is no assurance that we will obtain such relief. In the event the SEC does not grant us relief, we could be limited in our ability to invest in certain portfolio companies in which GDFM or any of its affiliates are investing or are invested. Even if we are able to receive exemptive relief, we will be unable to participate in certain transactions originated by GSO or its affiliates prior to receipt of such relief. Affiliates of GDFM, whose primary business include the origination of investments, engage in investment advisory business with accounts that compete with us. Affiliates of GDFM have no obligation to make their originated investment opportunities available to GDFM or to us. Our incentive fee may induce FB Advisor to make, and GDFM to recommend, speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to FB Advisor may create an incentive for it to make investments on our behalf that are risky or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The way in which the incentive fee payable to FB Advisor is determined may encourage it to use 28 Table of Contents leverage to increase the return on our investments. In addition, the fact that our base management fee is payable based upon our gross assets, which would include any borrowings for investment purposes, may encourage FB Advisor to use leverage to make additional investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would disfavor holders of our common stock. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during cyclical economic downturns. In addition, since GDFM will receive a portion of the advisory fees paid to FB Advisor, GDFM may have an incentive to recommend investments that are riskier or more speculative. Risks Related to Business Development Companies The requirement that we invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could preclude us from investing in accordance with our current business strategy; conversely, the failure to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets could result in our failure to maintain our status as a business development company. As a BDC, we may not acquire any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. See “Item 1. Business—Regulation.” Therefore, we may be precluded from investing in what we believe are attractive investments if such investments are not qualifying assets. Conversely, if we fail to invest a sufficient portion of our assets in qualifying assets, we could lose our status as a BDC, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. Similarly, these rules could prevent us from making additional investments in existing portfolio companies, which could result in the dilution of our position, or could require us to dispose of investments at an inopportune time to comply with the 1940 Act. If we were forced to sell non-qualifying investments in the portfolio for compliance purposes, the proceeds from such sale could be significantly less than the current value of such investments. Failure to maintain our status as a business development company would reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not remain a BDC, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would subject us to substantially more regulatory restrictions under the 1940 Act and correspondingly decrease our operating flexibility. Regulations governing our operation as a business development company and RIC will affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise additional capital or borrow for investment purposes, which may have a negative effect on our growth. As a result of the annual distribution requirement to qualify as a RIC, we may need to periodically raise cash to fund new investments. We may issue “senior securities,” including borrowing money from banks or other financial institutions only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such incurrence or issuance. Our ability to issue different types of securities is also limited. Compliance with these requirements may unfavorably limit our investment opportunities and reduce our ability in comparison to other companies to profit from favorable spreads between the rates at which we can borrow and the rates at which we can lend. As a BDC, therefore, we intend to continuously issue equity at a rate more frequent than our privately owned competitors, which may lead to greater stockholder dilution. We expect to borrow for investment purposes. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy the asset coverage test, which would prohibit us from paying distributions and could prevent us from qualifying as a RIC. If we cannot satisfy the asset coverage test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our debt financing, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous. Under the 1940 Act, we generally are prohibited from issuing or selling our common stock at a price below net asset value per share, which may be a disadvantage as compared with other public companies. We may, 29 Table of Contents however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value of the common stock if our board of directors and independent directors determine that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and our stockholders as well as those stockholders that are not affiliated with us approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the fair value of such securities. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates will be restricted. We will be prohibited under the 1940 Act from participating in certain transactions with certain of our affiliates without the prior approval of a majority of the independent members of our board of directors and, in some cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities will be our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act and we will generally be prohibited from buying or selling any securities from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our board of directors. The 1940 Act also prohibits certain “joint” transactions with certain of our affiliates, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our board of directors and, in some cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we will be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person or certain of that person’s affiliates, or entering into prohibited joint transactions with such persons, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Similar restrictions limit our ability to transact business with our officers or directors or their affiliates. As a result of these restrictions, we may be prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to any portfolio company of a private equity fund managed by FB Advisor without the prior approval of the SEC, which may limit the scope of investment opportunities that would otherwise be available to us. We are uncertain of our sources for funding our future capital needs; if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. The net proceeds from the sale of shares will be used for our investment opportunities, operating expenses and for payment of various fees and expenses such as base management fees, incentive fees and other fees. Any working capital reserves we maintain may not be sufficient for investment purposes, and we may require debt or equity financing to operate. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for investments or for any other reason, these sources of funding may not be available to us. Consequently, if we cannot obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, our ability to acquire investments and to expand our operations will be adversely affected. As a result, we would be less able to achieve portfolio diversification and our investment objectives, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Investments Our investments in prospective portfolio companies may be risky, and we could lose all or part of our investment. We expect to continue to invest primarily in senior secured term loans, second lien secured loans and, to a lesser extent, mezzanine debt and selected equity investments issued by private U.S. companies, including small and middle market companies. Senior Secured Loans and Second Lien Secured Loans. When we invest in senior secured term loans and second lien secured loans, we will generally take a security interest in the available assets of these portfolio companies, including the equity interests of their subsidiaries. We expect this security interest to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time or lose its entire value, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of 30 Table of Contents the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital. Also, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Mezzanine Debt. Our mezzanine debt investments will generally be subordinated to senior loans and will generally be unsecured. This may result in a heightened level of risk and volatility or a loss of principal, which could lead to the loss of the entire investment. These investments may involve additional risks that could adversely affect our investment returns. To the extent interest payments associated with such debt are deferred, such debt may be subject to greater fluctuations in valuations, and such debt could subject us and our stockholders to non-cash income. Since we will not receive any principal repayments prior to the maturity of some of our mezzanine debt investments, such investments will be of greater risk than amortizing loans. Equity Investments. We expect to make selected equity investments. In addition, when we invest in senior secured and second lien secured loans or mezzanine debt, we may acquire warrants to purchase equity securities. Our goal is ultimately to dispose of these equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of such interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. In addition, investing in small and middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including that they: • may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tends to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and changing market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position. In addition, our executive officers, directors and members of FB Advisor may, in the ordinary course of business, be named as defendants in litigation arising from our investments in the portfolio companies; and • may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capital needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. We will invest primarily in first lien, second lien and, to a lesser extent, mezzanine debt issued by private U.S. companies, including small and middle market private U.S. companies. Our portfolio companies may have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the debt in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before 31 Table of Contents the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments with respect to the debt instruments in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution. After repaying such senior creditors, such portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with debt instruments in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such debt in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. There may be circumstances where our debt investments could be subordinated to claims of other creditors or we could be subject to lender liability claims. Even though we intend to generally structure certain of our investments as senior loans, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt investment and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. In situations where a bankruptcy carries a high degree of political significance, our legal rights may be subordinated to other creditors. We may also be subject to lender liability claims for actions taken by us with respect to a borrower’s business or instances where we exercise control over the borrower. We generally will not control our portfolio companies. We do not expect to control most of our portfolio companies, even though we may have board representation or board observation rights, and our debt agreements may contain certain restrictive covenants. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we invest may make business decisions with which we disagree and the management of such company, as representatives of the holders of their common equity, may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests as debt investors. Due to the lack of liquidity for our investments in non-traded companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like or at an appropriate valuation. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We will be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. We are subject to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates. While the majority of our investments are floating-rate debt instruments, to the extent that we invest in fixed-rate securities or loans, general interest rate fluctuations may have a substantial negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, have a material adverse effect on our investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. In addition, an increase in interest rates would make it more expensive to use debt for our financing needs, if any. Second priority liens on collateral securing loans that we will make to our portfolio companies may be subject to control by senior creditors with first priority liens. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay in full both the first priority creditors and us. Certain loans that we will make to portfolio companies will be secured on a second priority basis by the same collateral securing senior secured debt of such companies. The first priority liens on the collateral will secure the portfolio company’s obligations under any outstanding senior debt and may secure certain other future debt that may be permitted to be incurred by the company under the agreements governing the loans. The holders of obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral will generally control the liquidation of and be entitled to receive proceeds from any realization of the collateral to repay their obligations in full before us. In addition, the value of the collateral in the event of liquidation will depend on market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and other factors. There can be no assurance that the proceeds, if any, from the sale or sales of all of the collateral would be sufficient to satisfy the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens 32 Table of Contents after payment in full of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on the collateral. If such proceeds are not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the loan obligations secured by the second priority liens, then we, to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral, will only have an unsecured claim against the company’s remaining assets, if any. The rights we may have with respect to the collateral securing the loans we make to our portfolio companies with senior debt outstanding may also be limited pursuant to the terms of one or more intercreditor agreements that we enter into with the holders of senior debt. Under such an intercreditor agreement, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any of the following actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations secured by the first priority liens: the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral; the ability to control the conduct of such proceedings; the approval of amendments to collateral documents; releases of liens on the collateral; and waivers of past defaults under collateral documents. We may not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if our rights are adversely affected. Defaults by our portfolio companies will harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize a portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt or equity securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. We may not realize gains from our equity investments. Certain investments that we may make could include warrants or other equity securities. In addition, we may make direct equity investments in companies. Our goal is ultimately to realize gains upon our disposition of such equity interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and, in fact, may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. We also may be unable to realize any value if a portfolio company does not have a liquidity event, such as a sale of the business, recapitalization or public offering, which would allow us to sell the underlying equity interests. We intend to seek puts or similar rights to give us the right to sell our equity securities back to the portfolio company issuer. We may be unable to exercise these put rights for the consideration provided in our investment documents if the issuer is in financial distress. An investment strategy focused primarily on privately held companies presents certain challenges, including the lack of available information about these companies. Our investments are primarily in privately held companies. Investments in private companies pose certain incremental risks as compared to investments in public companies. First, private companies have reduced access to the capital markets, resulting in diminished capital resources and the ability to withstand financial distress. Second, the investments themselves tend to be less liquid. As such, we may have difficulty exiting an investment promptly or at a desired price prior to maturity or outside of a normal amortization schedule. Finally, little public information generally exists about private companies. Further, these companies may not have third-party debt ratings or audited financial statements. We must therefore rely on the ability of FB Advisor and/or GDFM to obtain adequate information through due diligence to evaluate the creditworthiness and potential returns from investing in these companies. These companies and their financial information will generally not be subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other rules that govern public companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments. As a result, the relative lack of liquidity and the potential diminished capital resources of our target portfolio companies may affect our investment returns. 33 Table of Contents A lack of liquidity in certain of our investments may adversely affect our business. We intend to invest in certain companies whose securities are not publicly traded or actively traded on the secondary market and are, instead, traded on a privately negotiated over-the-counter secondary market for institutional investors and whose securities will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or will otherwise be less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of certain of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell these investments when desired. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we had previously recorded these investments. The reduced liquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to dispose of them at a favorable price, and, as a result, we may suffer losses. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. We may not have the funds or ability to make additional investments in our portfolio companies. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment through the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decisions not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment, may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation or may reduce the expected return on the investment. Risks Relating to Debt Financing The agreements governing Broad Street’s revolving credit facility contain various covenants which, if not complied with, could accelerate repayment under the facility, thereby materially and adversely affecting our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Broad Street, has entered into a revolving credit facility with Deutsche Bank. The agreements governing this facility contain default provisions such as (a) the failure to make principal payments when due or interest payments within three business days of when due; (b) borrowings under the facility exceeding the applicable advance rates; (c) the purchase by Broad Street of certain ineligible assets; (d) the insolvency or bankruptcy of us or Broad Street; (e) our ceasing to act as investment manager of Broad Street’s assets; (f) the decline of our net asset value below $50,000,000; and (g) fraud or other illicit acts by us or FB Advisor or GDFM in our or their investment advisory capacities. An event of default under the facility would result, among other things, in the termination of the availability of further funds under the facility and an accelerated maturity date for all amounts outstanding under the facility. This could disrupt our business, reduce our revenues and, by delaying any dividends allowed to us under the facility until the lender has been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business, make distribution payments to our stockholders and maintain our status as a RIC. The agreements governing the facility also require Broad Street to comply with certain operational covenants. These covenants require Broad Street to, among other things, maintain eligible assets with an aggregate value equal to or exceeding a specified multiple of the borrowings under the facility. The occurrence of certain “Super-Collateralization Events” results in an increase of the minimum aggregate value of eligible assets that Broad Street is required to maintain. Super-Collateralization events include, without limitation, (i) certain key employees ceasing to be directors, principals, officers or investment managers of GDFM; (ii) the bankruptcy or insolvency of GDFM or FB Advisor; (iii) GDFM ceasing to act as our sub-advisor or FB Advisor ceasing to act as our investment advisor; (iv) our ceasing to act as Broad Street’s investment manager, becoming bankrupt or insolvent, defaulting in certain material agreements or failing to maintain a net asset value at least equal to $50,000,000; and (v) us or GDFM or FB Advisor committing fraud or other illicit acts in our or their investment advisory capacities. A decline in the value of assets owned by Broad Street or the occurrence of a Super-Collateralization Event under the facility could result in us being required to contribute additional assets to Broad Street, which would likely disrupt our business and impact our ability to meet our investment objectives and pay distributions to our stockholders. 34 Table of Contents The failure to meet collateral requirements under the facility or the occurrence of any other event of default which results in the termination of the facility may force Broad Street or us to liquidate positions at a time and/or at a price which is disadvantageous to us and could result in losses. Each borrowing under the facility is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. We cannot assure you that Broad Street will be able to borrow funds under the facility at any particular time or at all. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a more detailed discussion of the terms of the facility. If we borrow money, the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested in us will be magnified and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of borrowings, also known as leverage, increases the volatility of investments by magnifying the potential for gain or loss on invested equity capital. If we use leverage to partially finance our investments, through borrowing from banks and other lenders, you will experience increased risks of investing in our common stock. If the value of our assets increases, leveraging would cause the net asset value attributable to our common stock to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our income in excess of interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock distribution payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Changes in interest rates may affect our cost of capital and net investment income. Since we intend to use debt to finance investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. In periods of rising interest rates when we have debt outstanding, our cost of funds will increase, which could reduce our net investment income. We expect that our long-term fixed-rate investments will be financed primarily with equity and long-term debt. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. These activities may limit our ability to participate in the benefits of lower interest rates with respect to the hedged portfolio. Adverse developments resulting from changes in interest rates or hedging transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, we have limited experience in entering into hedging transactions, and we will initially have to purchase or develop such expertise. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee preferred return and may result in a substantial increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to FB Advisor with respect to pre-incentive fee net investment income. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Investors will not know the purchase price per share at the time they submit their subscription agreements and could receive fewer shares of common stock than anticipated if our board of directors determines to increase the offering price to comply with the requirement that we avoid selling shares below net asset value. The purchase price at which you purchase shares will be determined at each semi-monthly closing date to ensure that the sales price is equal to or greater than the net asset value of our shares, after deducting selling commissions and dealer manager fees. As a result, in the event of an increase in our net asset value per share, your purchase price may be higher than the prior semi-monthly closing price per share, and therefore you may receive a smaller number of shares than if you had subscribed at the prior closing price. 35 Table of Contents Investors will not know the purchase price per share at the time they submit their subscription agreements and could pay a premium for their shares of common stock if our board of directors does not decrease the offering price in the event of a decline to our net asset value per share. The purchase price at which you purchase shares will be determined at each semi-monthly closing date to ensure that the sales price is equal to or greater than the net asset value of our shares, after deducting selling commissions and dealer manager fees. In the event of a decrease to our net asset value per share, you could pay a premium for your shares of common stock if our board of directors does not decrease the offering price. A decline in our net asset value per share to an amount more than 5% below our current offering price, net of selling commissions and dealer manager fees, creates a rebuttable presumption that there has been a material change in the value of our assets such that a reduction in the offering price per share is warranted. This presumption may only be rebutted if our board of directors, in consultation with our management, reasonably and in good faith determines that the decline in net asset value per share is the result of a temporary movement in the credit markets, rather than a more fundamental shift in the valuation of our portfolio. In the event that (i) net asset value per share decreases to more than 5% below our current net offering price and (ii) our board of directors believes that such decrease in net asset value per share is the result of a non-temporary movement in the credit markets or the value of our assets, our board of directors will undertake to establish a new net offering price that is not more than 5% above our net asset value per share. If our board of directors determines that the decline in our net asset value per share is the result of a temporary movement in the credit markets, investors will purchase shares at an offering price, net of selling commissions and dealer manager fees, which represents a premium to the net asset value per share of greater than 5%. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.” If we are unable to raise substantial funds in our ongoing, continuous “best efforts” offering, we will be limited in the number and type of investments we may make, and the value of your investment in us may be reduced in the event our assets under-perform. Our continuous offering is being made on a best efforts basis, whereby the dealer manager and broker-dealers participating in the offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of the shares. To the extent that less than the maximum number of shares is subscribed for, the opportunity for diversification of our investments may be decreased and the returns achieved on those investments may be reduced as a result of allocating all of our expenses among a smaller capital base. Our shares are not listed on an exchange or quoted through a quotation system, and will not be for the foreseeable future, if ever. Therefore, our shareholders have limited liquidity and may not receive a full return of invested capital upon selling shares. Our shares are illiquid assets for which there is not a secondary market, and it is not expected that any will develop in the future. We intend to seek to complete a liquidity event for our stockholders between five and seven years following the completion of our offering stage. However, there can be no assurance that we will complete a liquidity event within such time or at all. We expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duty to our stockholders, will determine to pursue a liquidity event when it believes that then-current market conditions are favorable for a liquidity event, and that such a event is in the best interests of our stockholders. A liquidity event could include (1) the sale of all or substantially all of our assets either on a complete portfolio basis or individually followed by a liquidation, (2) a listing of our shares on a national securities exchange or (3) a merger or another transaction approved by our board in which our stockholders will receive cash or shares of a publicly traded company. Prior to the completion of a liquidity event, our share repurchase program may provide a limited opportunity for investors to achieve liquidity, subject to certain restrictions and limitations, at a price which may reflect a discount from the purchase price you paid for the shares being repurchased. 36 Table of Contents In making the decision to apply for listing of our shares, our directors will try to determine whether listing our shares or liquidating our assets will result in greater value for our stockholders. In making a determination of what type of liquidity event is in the best interest of our stockholders, our board of directors, including our independent directors, may consider a variety of criteria, including, but not limited to, market conditions, portfolio diversification, portfolio performance, our financial condition, potential access to capital as a listed company, market conditions for the sale of our assets or listing of our common stock, internal management requirements to become a perpetual life company and the potential for stockholder liquidity. If our shares are listed, we cannot assure you a public trading market will develop. Further, even if we do complete a liquidity event, you may not receive a return of all of your invested capital. We are not obligated to complete a liquidity event by a specified date; therefore, it will be difficult for an investor to sell shares. We intend to seek to complete a liquidity event for our stockholders between five to seven years following the completion of our offering stage. We expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of the requisite standard of care applicable to directors under Maryland law, will determine to pursue a liquidity event when it believes that then-current market conditions are favorable for a liquidity event, and that such a transaction is in the best interests of our stockholders. A liquidity event could include (1) the sale of all or substantially all of our assets either on a complete portfolio basis or individually followed by a liquidation, (2) a listing of our shares on a national securities exchange, or (3) a merger or another transaction approved by our board in which our stockholders will receive cash or shares of a publicly traded company. However, there can be no assurance that we will complete a liquidity event within such time or at all. If we do not successfully complete a liquidity event, liquidity for an investor’s shares will be limited to our share repurchase program, which we have no obligation to maintain. The dealer manager in our continuous offering may be unable to sell a sufficient number of shares of common stock for us to achieve our investment objectives. The dealer manager for our public offering is FS2 Capital Partners, LLC, or our “dealer manager.” Our dealer manager has limited experience selling shares on behalf of a BDC. There is no assurance that it will be able to sell a sufficient number of shares to allow us to have adequate funds to purchase a diversified portfolio of investments and generate income sufficient to cover our expenses. As a result, we may be unable to achieve our investment objectives, and you could lose some or all of the value of your investment. Because the dealer manager is one of our affiliates, you will not have the benefit of an independent due diligence review of us, which is customarily performed in firm commitment underwritten offerings; the absence of an independent due diligence review increases the risks and uncertainty you face as a stockholder. The dealer manager, FS2 Capital Partners, LLC, is one of our affiliates. As a result, its due diligence review and investigation of us cannot be considered to be an independent review. Therefore, you do not have the benefit of an independent review and investigation of this offering of the type normally performed by an unaffiliated, independent underwriter in a firm commitment underwritten public securities offering. Our ability to successfully conduct our continuous offering is dependent, in part, on the ability of the dealer manager to successfully establish, operate and maintain a network of broker-dealers. Other than serving as dealer manager for our public offering, the dealer manager has no prior experience acting as a dealer manager for a public offering. The success of our public offering, and correspondingly our ability to implement our business strategy, is dependent upon the ability of the dealer manager to establish and maintain a network of licensed securities broker-dealers and other agents to sell our shares. If the dealer manager fails to perform, we may not be able to raise adequate proceeds through our public offering to implement our investment strategy. If we are unsuccessful in implementing our investment strategy, you could lose all or a part of your investment. 37 Table of Contents We intend to repurchase a portion of our outstanding shares on a quarterly basis. As a result, you will have limited opportunities to sell your shares and, to the extent you are able to sell your shares under the repurchase program, you may not be able to recover the amount of your investment in our shares. We intend to conduct quarterly tender offers for a portion of our outstanding shares pursuant to our share repurchase program. The first such tender offer commenced in March 2010 and the repurchase will occur in connection with our April 1, 2010 closing. Any such repurchase will be at a price equal to 90% of our public offering price on the date of repurchase. The share repurchase program will include numerous restrictions that limit your ability to sell your shares. We intend to limit the number of shares repurchased pursuant to our proposed share repurchase program as follows: (1) we currently intend to limit the number of shares to be repurchased during any calendar year to the number of shares we can repurchase with the proceeds we receive from the sale of shares of our common stock under our distribution reinvestment plan. At the discretion of our board of directors, we may also use cash on hand, cash available from borrowings and cash from liquidation of securities investments as of the end of the applicable period to repurchase shares; (2) we will not repurchase shares in any calendar year in excess of 10% of the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the prior calendar year, or 2.5% in each quarter; (3) unless you tender all of your shares, you must tender at least 25% of the amount of shares you have purchased in the offering and must maintain a minimum balance of $5,000 subsequent to submitting a portion of your shares for repurchase by us; and (4) to the extent that the number of shares put to us for repurchase exceeds the number of shares that we are able to purchase, we will repurchase shares on a pro rata basis, not on a first-come, first-served basis. Further, we will have no obligation to repurchase shares if the repurchase would violate the restrictions on distributions under federal law or Maryland law, which prohibits distributions that would cause a corporation to fail to meet statutory tests of solvency. These limits may prevent us from accommodating all repurchase requests made in any year. Our board of directors may amend, suspend or terminate the repurchase program upon 30 days’ notice. We will notify you of such developments (1) in our quarterly reports or (2) by means of a separate mailing to you, accompanied by disclosure in a current or periodic report under the Exchange Act. In addition, although we have adopted a share repurchase program, we have discretion to not repurchase your shares, to suspend the plan, and to cease repurchases. Further, the plan has many limitations and should not be relied upon as a method to sell shares promptly and at a desired price. The timing of our repurchase offers pursuant to our share repurchase program may be at a time that is disadvantageous to our stockholders. When we make quarterly repurchase offers pursuant to the share repurchase program, we may offer to repurchase shares at a price that is lower than the price that investors paid for shares in our offering. As a result, to the extent investors have the ability to sell their shares to us as part of our share repurchase program, the price at which an investor may sell shares, which will be 90% of the offering price on the date of repurchase, may be lower than what an investor paid in connection with the purchase of shares in our offering. In addition, in the event an investor chooses to participate in our share repurchase program, the investor will be required to provide us with notice of intent to participate prior to knowing what the net asset value per share will be on the repurchase date. Although an investor will have the ability to withdraw a repurchase request prior to the repurchase date, to the extent an investor seeks to sell shares to us as part of our periodic share repurchase program, the investor will be required to do so without knowledge of what the repurchase price of our shares will be on the repurchase date. We may be unable to invest a significant portion of the net proceeds of our offering on acceptable terms in an acceptable timeframe. Delays in investing the net proceeds of our offering may impair our performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify any investments that meet our investment objectives or that any investment that we make will produce a positive return. We may be unable to invest the net proceeds of our offering on acceptable terms within the time period that we anticipate or at all, which could harm our financial condition and operating results. 38 Table of Contents In addition, even if we are able to raise significant proceeds, we will not be permitted to use such proceeds to co-invest with certain entities affiliated with GDFM in transactions originated by GSO or its affiliates unless we first obtain an exemptive order from the SEC. We are seeking an exemptive order. However, there can be no assurance that we will obtain such relief. Before making investments, we will invest the net proceeds of our public offering primarily in cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities, repurchase agreements and high-quality debt instruments maturing in one year or less from the time of investment, which may produce returns that are significantly lower than the returns which we expect to achieve when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objectives. As a result, any distributions that we pay while our portfolio is not fully invested in securities meeting our investment objectives may be lower than the distributions that we may be able to pay when our portfolio is fully invested in securities meeting our investment objectives. A stockholder’s interest in us will be diluted if we issue additional shares, which could reduce the overall value of an investment in us. Our investors do not have preemptive rights to any shares we issue in the future. Our charter authorizes us to issue 450,000,000 shares of common stock. Pursuant to our charter, a majority of our entire board of directors may amend our charter to increase the number of authorized shares of stock without stockholder approval. After an investor purchases shares, our board may elect to sell additional shares in the future, issue equity interests in private offerings or issue share-based awards to our independent directors or employees of FB Advisor. To the extent we issue additional equity interests after an investor purchases our shares, an investor’s percentage ownership interest in us will be diluted. In addition, depending upon the terms and pricing of any additional offerings and the value of our investments, an investor may also experience dilution in the book value and fair value of your shares. Certain provisions of our charter and bylaws as well as provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law could deter takeover attempts and have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Our charter and bylaws, as well as certain statutory and regulatory requirements, contain certain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire us. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the Control Share Acquisition Act under the Maryland General Corporation Law any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares of stock. Our board may amend the bylaws to remove that exemption in whole or in part without stockholder approval. The Control Share Acquisition Act (if we amend our bylaws to be subject to that Act) may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, specified “business combinations,” including certain mergers, consolidations, issuances of equity securities and other transactions, between a Maryland corporation and any person who owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation’s outstanding shares, and certain other parties, (each an “interested stockholder”), or an affiliate of the interested stockholder, are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. Thereafter any of the specified business combinations must be approved by a super majority vote of the stockholders unless, among other conditions, the corporation’s common stockholders receive a minimum price for their shares. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law, certain statutory provisions permit a corporation that is subject to the Exchange Act and that has at least three outside directors to be subject to certain corporate governance provisions that may be inconsistent with the corporation’s charter and bylaws. Among other provisions, a board of directors may classify itself without the vote of stockholders. Further, the board of directors, by electing into certain statutory provisions and notwithstanding the charter or bylaws, may (i) provide 39 Table of Contents that a special meeting of stockholders will be called only at the request of stockholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, (ii) reserve for itself the right to fix the number of directors, and (iii) retain for itself sole authority to fill vacancies created by the death, removal or resignation of a director. A corporation may be prohibited by its charter or by resolution of its board of directors from electing any of the provisions of the statute. We are not prohibited from implementing any or all of the statute. Additionally, our board of directors may, without stockholder action, authorize the issuance of shares of stock in one or more classes or series, including preferred stock; and our board of directors may, without stockholder action, amend our charter to increase the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue. These anti-takeover provisions may inhibit a change of control in circumstances that could give the holders of our common stock the opportunity to realize a premium over the value of our common stock. Federal Income Tax Risks We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain RIC status under Subchapter M of the Code or to satisfy RIC distribution requirements. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we may use debt financing, we are subject to an asset coverage ratio requirement under the 1940 Act and may in the future become subject to certain financial covenants under loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from dividends, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. To satisfy this requirement, at least 50% of the value of our assets must consist of cash, cash equivalents, U.S. Government securities, securities of other RICs, and other acceptable securities; and no more than 25% of the value of our assets can be invested in the securities, other than U.S. government securities or securities of other RICs, of one issuer, of two or more issuers that are controlled, as determined under applicable Code rules, by us and that are engaged in the same or similar or related trades or businesses or of certain “qualified publicly traded partnerships.” Failure to meet these requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to maintain RIC tax treatment for any reason and are subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. For federal income tax purposes, we may be required to recognize taxable income in circumstances in which we do not receive a corresponding payment in cash. For example, if we hold debt obligations that are treated under applicable tax rules as having original issue discount (such as debt instruments with PIK interest or, in 40 Table of Contents certain cases, increasing interest rates or debt instruments that were issued with warrants), we must include in income each year a portion of the original issue discount that accrues over the life of the obligation, regardless of whether cash representing such income is received by us in the same taxable year. We may also have to include in income other amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as deferred loan origination fees that are paid after origination of the loan or are paid in non-cash compensation such as warrants or stock. We anticipate that a portion of our income may constitute original issue discount or other income required to be included in taxable income prior to receipt of cash. Further, we may elect to amortize market discounts and include such amounts in our taxable income in the current year, instead of upon disposition, as an election not to do so would limit our ability to deduct interest expenses for tax purposes. Because any original issue discount or other amounts accrued will be included in our investment company taxable income for the year of the accrual, we may be required to make a distribution to our stockholders in order to satisfy the annual distribution requirement, even though we will not have received any corresponding cash amount. As a result, we may have difficulty meeting the annual distribution requirement necessary to obtain and maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code. We may have to sell some of our investments at times and/or at prices we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or forgo new investment opportunities for this purpose. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 