Item 1A. Risk Factors. This annual report contains forward-looking statements. The words “may,” “will,” “plan,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate” and other expressions that are predictions of or indicate future events and trends and that do not relate to historical matters identify forward-looking statements. Although forward-looking statements reflect our current views, reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described under “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this Form 10-K, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. If our design and marketing efforts do not effectively extend the recognition and reputation of our brand, we may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy. We believe that our ability to extend the recognition and favorable perception of our brand is critical to implement our growth strategy, which includes further penetrating our domestic retail channel, accelerating our international growth, growing our premium product offering, expanding complementary product categories and increasing our online sales. To extend the reach of our brand, we believe we must devote significant time and resources to product design, marketing and promotions. These expenditures, however, may not result in a sufficient increase in net sales to cover such expenses. Furthermore, we must balance our growth with the effect it has on the authenticity of our brand. For example, our credibility and brand image could be weakened if our consumers perceive our distribution channels 11 Table of Contents to be too broad or our retailers to not fit with our lifestyle image. Similarly, the introduction of new, low cost product lines, such as our 2XL headphones, may cause our consumers to perceive a decrease in the authenticity or quality of our products. If any of these events occur, our consumer base and our net sales may decline and we may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to continue to develop innovative and popular products, our brand image may be harmed and demand for our products may decrease. The consumer electronics and action sports lifestyle are subject to constantly and rapidly changing consumer preferences based on industry trends and performance features. Our success depends largely on our ability to anticipate, gauge and respond to these changing consumer preferences and trends in a timely manner, while preserving and strengthening the perception and authenticity of our brand. We must continue to develop innovative, trend-setting and stylish products that provide better design and performance attributes than the products of our competitors. Market acceptance of new designs and products is subject to uncertainty and we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. For example, our growth strategy includes growing our premium product offering, which may not achieve broad market acceptance. The inability of new product designs or new product lines to gain market acceptance could adversely affect our brand image, our business and financial condition. Achieving market acceptance for new products may also require substantial marketing efforts and expenditures to increase consumer demand, which could constrain our management, financial and operational resources. If new products we introduce do not experience broad market acceptance, our net sales and market share could decline. Our manufacturing is concentrated with two key manufacturers, and if our relationship with either or both of them terminates or is otherwise impaired, we would likely experience increased costs, disruptions in the manufacture and shipment of our products and a material loss of net sales. We have no long-term contracts with our manufacturers and as a result, our manufacturers could cease to provide products to us with no notice. Two of our manufacturers, Antonio Precision Products Manufactory and Guangzhou Sun Young Electronics Company, together accounted for approximately 52% and 70% of our cost of goods sold in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Guangzhou Sun Young Electronics Company is the sole source supplier for the products that it produces. We purchase from these two manufacturers on a purchase order basis with orders generally filled between 30 and 75 days after our purchase order is placed. A loss of either or both of these manufacturers or other key manufacturers would result in delayed deliveries to our retailers and distributors, would adversely impact our net sales and may require the establishment of new manufacturing relationships. Additionally, we cannot be certain that we will not experience operational difficulties with our manufacturers, including reductions in the availability of production capacity, errors in complying with product specifications, insufficient quality control, failures to meet production deadlines, increases in manufacturing costs and increased lead times. We have created a manufacturer selection and qualification program and are actively looking for new manufacturing sources in other countries and other regions of China. Qualifying new manufacturing sources may result in increased costs, disruptions and delays in the manufacture and shipment of our products while seeking alternative manufacturing sources, and a corresponding loss of net sales. In addition, any new manufacturer may not perform to our expectations or produce quality products in a timely, cost-efficient manner, either of which could make it difficult for us to meet our retailers’ and distributors’ orders on satisfactory commercial terms. Moreover, certain natural disasters or outbreaks of illnesses could halt or disrupt production at the affected facilities, delay the completion of orders, cause the cancellation of orders, delay the introduction of new products or cause us to miss a selling season applicable to some of our products. The failure of any manufacturer to perform to our expectations could result in supply shortages or delivery delays, either of which could harm our business. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to sustain our past growth or manage our future growth, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. We have experienced rapid growth since our inception in 2003. We increased our net sales from $9.1 million in 2006 to $232.5 million in 2011. We cannot assure you that we will continue to experience a similar growth in the future. Our future success will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, broad market acceptance of our current and future products, competitive conditions, our ability to manage increased net sales, if any, the implementation of our growth strategy and our ability to manage our anticipated growth. We intend to finance our anticipated growth through cash flows generated from sales to our existing retailers and distributors, borrowings under our credit facility and the net proceeds from this offering. However, if our net sales decline, we may not have the cash flow necessary to pursue our growth strategy. We anticipate significantly expanding our infrastructure and adding personnel which will cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars and which may cause our selling, general and administrative expenses to increase as a percentage of net sales. Because these expenses are generally fixed, particularly in the short-term, if we do not achieve our anticipated growth, our operating results may be adversely impacted. If we continue to experience growth in our operations, our operational, administrative, financial and legal procedures and controls may need to be expanded. As a result, we may need to train and manage an increasing number of employees, which could distract our management team from our business plan. Our future success will depend substantially on our ability to manage our anticipated growth. If we are unable to anticipate or manage our growth effectively, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of sponsored athletes, DJs, musicians and artists, our ability to market and sell our products may be harmed. A key element of our marketing strategy has been to sponsor best-in-class athletes, DJs, musicians and artists, which we believe contributes to our authenticity and brand image. We do not have contractual relationships with the majority of our sponsored athletes, DJs, musicians and artists, and we cannot assure you that they will continue to support our brand or that they will not support one of our competitors. We compensate the sponsored athletes, DJs, musicians and artists that we do have contracts with for promoting our products. Sponsorship arrangements are typically structured to give our sponsored team members financial incentives to maintain a highly visible profile with our products. Our contracts typically have a one- year term, with some providing for a two-year term, and grant us a license for the use of their names and likenesses, and typically require them to maintain exclusive association with our headphones. In turn, we agree to make cash payments to our sponsored team members for wearing our products during various public appearances, in magazine shoots and on the podium after certain competitive victories. In addition to cash payments, we also generally provide limited complimentary products for their use, and reimburse certain travel expenses incurred in conjunction with promoting our products. Additionally, certain competitors with greater access to capital may increase the cost our existing relationships with our sponsored athletes, DJs, musicians and artists to levels we may choose not to match. If this were to occur, our sponsored team members may terminate their relationships with us and endorse our competitors’ products, and we may be unable to obtain endorsements from other comparable individuals. We may also select individuals who are unable to perform at expected levels or who do not maintain the level of recognition we expect. Negative publicity concerning any of our athletes, DJs, musicians or artists could harm our brand and adversely impact our net sales. If we are unable to secure prominent athletes, DJs, musicians and artists and arrange endorsements of our products on terms we deem to be reasonable, we may be required to modify our marketing platform and to rely more heavily on other forms of marketing and promotion, which may not prove to be as effective. 13 Table of Contents Our plans to grow our international business may require significant operating expenditures, but such expenditures may not result in increased net sales. We believe that our success in international markets is partially dependent on being “locally” relevant, but we have limited experience with the action sports and youth lifestyle in Europe and Asia. We plan to identify the best-in-class internationally-based athletes, DJs, musicians and artists that will best represent our lifestyle brand and arrange for such persons to endorse our products. We have launched websites in Europe and we plan to launch websites in Asia that will be available in the local language with local content and expect that our products will have region-specific packaging that we believe will help sell through of our products. Each of these efforts will require significant management time and resources, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding our brand in international markets. Over time, we plan to assume direct control of certain international markets, which will require increased operating expenditures to establish the infrastructure. On August 26, 2011, we completed the purchase of all outstanding stock of Kungsbacka 57 AB, a subsidiary of 57 North AB. Kungsbacka 57 AB previously held an exclusive distribution agreement for Skullcandy products in Europe through November of 2013. As a result of the acquisition, we are now responsible for distribution of our products in Europe. We have limited experience with international distribution and we cannot assure you that we will be able to manage European distribution successfully or that the same marketing model we use domestically will be successful. If we are not able to manage our international distribution efficiently, our international retailers and distributors may experience delays in receipt of our products and we may have to find alternate distribution arrangements, which could result in increased expenditures and a reduction in margins. Two of our retailers account for a significant amount of our net sales, and the loss of, or reduced purchases from, these or other retailers could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Target and Best Buy each accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in 2010. Best Buy continued to account for more than 10% of our net sales in 2011. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our retailers, including Target and Best Buy, and all of our retailers generally purchase from us on a purchase order basis. As a result, these retailers generally may, with no notice or penalty, cease ordering and selling our products, or materially reduce their orders. If certain retailers, including Target or Best Buy, individually or in the aggregate, choose to no longer sell our products, to slow their rate of purchase of our products or to decrease the number of products they purchase, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete effectively, which could cause our net sales and market share to decline. The consumer electronics industry is highly competitive and includes many new competitors as well as increased competition from established companies expanding their product portfolio. We face competition from consumer electronics brands that have historically dominated the stereo headphone market. These include large companies with strong worldwide brand recognition, such as Sony, JVC and Bose. These competitors have significant competitive advantages, including greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources, longer operating histories, better brand recognition among certain groups of consumers, and greater economies of scale. In addition, these competitors have long-term relationships with many of our larger retailers that are potentially more important to those retailers. As a result, these competitors may be better equipped to influence consumer preferences or otherwise increase their market share by: • quickly adapting to changes in consumer preferences; • readily taking advantage of acquisition and other opportunities; • discounting excess inventory that has been written down or written off; • devoting greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products, including significant advertising, media placement and product endorsement; 14 Table of Contents • adopting aggressive pricing policies; and • engaging in lengthy and costly intellectual property and other disputes. Well established sports brand companies, such as adidas have also recently introduced headphone products. Similar to the large electronic companies we compete with, these sport brand companies have significant competitive advantages, including greater financial, distribution, marketing and other resources, longer operating histories, better brand recognition among certain groups of consumers, and greater economies of scale. We also face competition from other lifestyle brand companies, such as Beats by Dr. Dre, Incase, Urbanears, Soul by Ludacris, Sol Republic and SMS Audio. These companies have introduced products that compete directly with our headphones and market their lifestyle-branded consumer electronics within the action sports and the indie and hip-hop markets. Additionally, some retailers have begun to introduce their own private label headphones. If any of our retailers introduce such headphones, it could reduce the volume of product they buy from us, as well as decrease the shelf space they allocate to our products. The introduction of private label headphones could decrease the demand for our products and have an adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. The industry in which we compete generally has low barriers to entry that allow the introduction of new products or new competitors at a fast pace. If we are unable to protect our brand image and authenticity, while carefully balancing our growth, we may be unable to effectively compete with these new market entrants or new products. The inability to compete effectively against new and existing competitors could have an adverse effect on our net sales and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by the financial condition of our retailers and distributors. Some of our retailers and distributors have experienced financial difficulties in the past. A retailer or distributor experiencing such difficulties will generally not purchase and sell as many of our products as it would under normal circumstances and may cancel orders. In addition, a retailer or distributor experiencing financial difficulties generally increases our exposure to uncollectible receivables. We extend credit to our retailers and distributors based on our assessment of their financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. While such credit losses have historically been within our reserves, we cannot assure you that this will continue to be the case. Additionally, if our retailers declare bankruptcy, we may be subject to preferential payment claims by the bankruptcy trustee. Financial difficulties on the part of our retailers or distributors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the mix of retailers and distributors to whom we sell our products could impact our gross margin and brand image, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We sell our products through a mix of retailers, including specialty, consumer electronics, mass, sporting goods and mobile phone retailers, and to distributors. Any changes to our current mix of retailers and distributors could adversely affect our gross margin and could negatively affect both our brand image and our reputation. We generally realize lower gross margins when we sell through our distributors, and therefore our gross margins may be adversely impacted if we increase product sales made through our distributors as opposed to through our retailers. In addition, we sell certain products at higher margins than others and any significant changes to our product mix made available to our retailers could adversely affect our gross margin. A negative change in our gross margin or our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks because a portion of our net sales are generated internationally and substantially all of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, international sales were $47.8 million, or 20.6% of net sales and $31.0 million, or 19.3% of net sales, respectively. In addition, substantially all of our products are manufactured in China. As a result, we face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks inherent in international business, many of which are beyond our control, including: • difficulties obtaining domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, and compliance with foreign laws, which could halt, interrupt or delay our operations if we cannot obtain such approvals, permits and licenses, and that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; • difficulties encountered by our international distributors or us in staffing and managing foreign operations or international sales, including higher labor costs, which could increase our expenses and decrease our net sales and profitability; • transportation delays and difficulties of managing international distribution channels, which could halt, interrupt or delay our operations; • longer payment cycles for, and greater difficulty collecting, accounts receivable, which could reduce our net sales and harm our financial results; • trade restrictions, higher tariffs, currency fluctuations or the imposition of additional regulations relating to import or export of our products, especially in China, where substantially all of our products are manufactured, which could force us to seek alternate manufacturing sources or increase our expenses, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations; • political and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our net sales and results of operations; and • natural disasters, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Any of these factors could reduce our net sales, decrease our gross margin or increase our expenses. Should we establish our own operations in international territories where we currently utilize a distributor, we will become subject to greater risks associated with operating outside of the United States. Any shortage of raw materials or components could impair our ability to ship orders of our products in a cost-efficient manner or could cause us to miss the delivery requirements of our retailers or distributors, which could harm our business. The ability of our manufacturers to supply our products is dependent, in part, upon the availability of raw materials and certain components. Our manufacturers may experience shortages in the availability of raw materials or components, which could result in delayed delivery of products to us or in increased costs to us. For example, we are dependent on the supply of certain components for our production of iPhone compatible headphones. These components are in high demand and we have experienced supply shortages in the past. Any shortage of raw materials or components or inability to control costs associated with manufacturing could increase the costs for our products or impair our ability to ship orders in a timely cost-efficient manner. As a result, we could experience cancellation of orders, refusal to accept deliveries or a reduction in our prices and margins, any of which could harm our financial performance and results of operations. Our business could suffer if any of our manufacturers fail to use acceptable labor practices. We do not control our manufacturers or their labor practices. The violation of labor or other laws by a manufacturer utilized by us, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those 16 Table of Contents generally accepted as ethical or legal in the United States, could damage our reputation or disrupt the shipment of finished products to us if such manufacturer is ordered to cease its manufacturing operations due to violations of laws or if such manufacturer’s operations are adversely affected by such failure to use acceptable labor practices. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we experience problems with our distribution network for domestic retailers, our ability to deliver our products to the market could be adversely affected. We rely on our distribution facility in Auburn, Washington, operated by UPS Supply Chain Solutions, for the majority of our domestic product distribution. Our distribution facility utilizes computer controlled and automated equipment, which means the operations are complicated and may be subject to a number of risks related to security or computer viruses, the proper operation of software and hardware, power interruptions or other system failures. We have experienced some of these problems in the past and we cannot assure you that we will not experience similar problems in the future. In order to further reduce costs and facilitate order fulfillment to our international retailers, we expect to transition the inventory from our third-party warehouse in Shenzhen, China to a third party logistics provider near Shenzhen during 2012. In addition, in 2013 we plan to contract with UPS Supply Chain Solutions to open a domestic distribution facility near Louisville, Kentucky. Furthermore, we have a limited history of order fulfillment and inventory management from the Auburn facility and could encounter problems that disrupt our distribution. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effects that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facility, such as the long-term loss of retailers or an erosion of our brand image. In addition, our distribution capacity is dependent on the timely performance of services by third parties, including the shipping of product to and from the Auburn facility. If we encounter problems with the Auburn facility, our ability to meet retailer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain intellectual property rights and/or enforce those rights against third parties who are violating those rights, our business could suffer. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, trade secrets and trade dress to protect our brand name, reputation, product appearance and technology. If we fail to obtain, maintain, or in some cases enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitors may be able to copy our designs, or use our brand name, trademarks or technology. As a result, if we are unable to successfully protect our intellectual property rights, or resolve any conflicts effectively, our results of operations may be harmed. We are susceptible to counterfeiting of our products, which may harm our reputation for producing high-quality products and force us to incur expenses in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Such claims and lawsuits can be expensive to resolve, require substantial management time and resources, and may not provide a satisfactory or timely result, any of which would harm our results of operations. It can be particularly difficult and expensive to detect and stop counterfeiting, whether in the United States or abroad. Despite our efforts to enforce our intellectual property, counterfeiters may continue to violate our intellectual property rights by using our trademarks or imitating or copying our products, which could harm our brand, reputation and financial condition. Since our products are sold internationally, we are also dependent on the laws of a range of countries to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. These laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent or in the same manner as the laws of the United States. We also face competition from competitors in the United States and abroad that are not “counterfeiters” but that may be using our patented technology, using confusingly similar trademarks, or copying the “look-and-feel” of our products. We may have to engage in expensive and distracting litigation to enforce and defend our patents, trademarks, trade dress, or other intellectual property rights. Our enforcement of our intellectual property rights also places such assets at risk. For example, it is common for a competitor that is accused of infringing a patent, trademark, or other intellectual property right to challenge the validity of that intellectual property right. If that 17 Table of Contents intellectual property right is invalidated, it is no longer available to assert against other competitors. Finally, competitors may also circumvent a patent by designing around the patent. Further, we are a party to licenses that grant us rights to intellectual property, including trademarks, that are necessary or useful to our business. For example, we license the right to market certain products with the trade names and imagery of brands such as Paul Frank, the NBA, RocNation, Kid Robot and Tokidoki. One or more of our licensors may allege that we have breached our license agreement with them, and accordingly seek to terminate our license. If successful, this could result in our loss of the right to use the licensed intellectual property, which could adversely affect our ability to commercialize our technologies or products, as well as harm our competitive business position and our business prospects. On March 29, 2011, Volcom, Inc. filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court, Central District of California, alleging that, among other things, RocNation’s logo infringes the Volcom stone logo. While we were not named in the complaint, our Aviator headphones carry the RocNation logo that is alleged to infringe the Volcom logo. We cannot assure you that we will not be subsequently named by Volcom in its complaint. Moreover, even if we are not named, if RocNation fails to successfully defend itself against Volcom in this matter, we could lose our ability to use the RocNation logo on our Aviator headphones and we may have to take action to modify our existing supply of Aviator headphones, either of which could have a material impact on sales of the Aviator headphone. Pursuant to our license agreement with RocNation we are indemnified for any claims alleging violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark or other intellectual property right arising out of our use of the RocNation logo. Claims that we violate a third party’s intellectual property rights may give rise to burdensome litigation, result in potential liability for damages or impede our development efforts. We cannot assure you that our products or activities do not violate the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. Patent infringement, trade secret misappropriation and other intellectual property claims and proceedings brought against us, whether successful or not, could result in substantial costs and harm our reputation. Such claims and proceedings can also distract and divert management and key personnel from other tasks important to the success of our business. An example of such claims includes a recently filed action asserting that our speaker docks infringe another company’s design patent. In addition, intellectual property litigation could force us to do one or more of the following: • cease developing, manufacturing, or selling products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • obtain and pay for licenses from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign or reengineer products; • change our business processes; and • pay substantial damages, court costs and attorneys’ fees, including potentially increased damages for any infringement or violation found to be willful. In the event of an adverse determination in an intellectual property suit or proceeding, or our failure to license essential technology, our sales could be harmed and/or our costs could increase, which could harm our financial condition. Our current executive officers are critical to our success and the loss of any of these individuals, or other key personnel, could harm our business and brand image. We are heavily dependent upon the contributions, talent and leadership of our current executive officers. The loss of any executive officers or the inability to attract or retain qualified executive officers could delay the 18 Table of Contents development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products and damage our brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On March 4, 2012, Mitch Edwards, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and General Counsel announced that he will resign from his position on April 1, 2012. We are actively searching for a new chief financial officer, but cannot assure that we will find a qualified replacement in a timely manner. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain additional qualified design and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these individuals worldwide and we may not be able to attract or retain these employees. Our credit facility provides our lenders with a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets and contains financial covenants and other restrictions on our actions and it could therefore limit our operational flexibility. Our credit facility contains certain financial covenants and other restrictions that limit our ability, among other things, to: • undergo a merger or consolidation; • sell certain assets; • create liens; • guarantee certain obligations of third parties; • make certain investments or capital expenditures; • materially change our line of business; • declare dividends or make certain distributions; • make advances, loans or extensions of credit; and • incur additional indebtedness or prepay existing indebtedness. In addition, we have granted the lenders a first-priority lien against substantially all of our assets. Failure to comply with the operating restrictions or financial covenants in the credit facility could result in a default which could cause the lender to accelerate the timing of payments and exercise its lien on substantially all of our assets. This could cause us to cease operations and result in a complete loss of your investment in our common stock. If the popularity or growth of the portable media device and smartphone markets stagnates, our business and financial condition may be negatively affected. We have experienced rapid growth in the past due in part to the popularity of, and increase in demand for, portable media devices and smartphones. We expect that sales of such products will continue to drive a substantial portion of our net sales in the future. The markets for portable media devices and smartphones continue to evolve rapidly and are dominated by several large companies. Increased competition in the headphones market from established portable media device companies or a decline in demand or popularity for such products due to technological change or otherwise, our business and financial condition may be negatively affected. Our online operations are subject to numerous risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Although online sales through our website constitute a small portion of our total net sales, our online operations subject us to certain risks that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. These risks include, negatively impacting our relationships with our retailers and distributors, liability for online content, and risks related to the computer systems that operate our website and related support systems, such as computer 19 Table of Contents viruses and electronic break-ins or similar disruptions. In addition, certain risks beyond our control, such as governmental regulation of the Internet, additional companies competing with us for online sales, online security breaches and general economic conditions specific to the Internet and online commerce could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We can provide no assurance that our online operations will meet our sales and profitability plans and the failure to do so could negatively impact our results of operations. Our net sales and operating income fluctuate on a seasonal basis and decreases in sales or margins during our peak seasons could have a disproportionate effect on our overall financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have experienced greater net sales in the second half of the year relative to those in the first half, due to a concentration of shopping around the fall and holiday seasons. As a result, our net sales and gross margins are typically higher in the third and fourth quarters and lower in the first and second quarters, as fixed operating costs are spread over the differing levels of sales volume. Given the strong seasonal nature of our sales, appropriate forecasting is critical to our operations. We anticipate that this seasonal impact on our net sales is likely to continue and any shortfall in expected third and fourth quarter net sales would cause our annual results of operations to suffer significantly. Our results of operations could be materially harmed if we are unable to accurately forecast demand for our products. To ensure adequate inventory supply, we must forecast inventory needs and place orders with our manufacturers before firm orders are placed by our retailers and distributors. In addition, a portion of our net sales are generated by orders for immediate delivery, particularly during our historical peak season from August through December. If we fail to accurately forecast retailer and distributor demand we may experience excess inventory levels or a shortage of product to deliver to our retailers or distributors. Factors that could affect our ability to accurately forecast demand for our products include: • changes in consumer demand for our products; • lack of consumer acceptance for our new products; • product introductions by competitors; • changes in general market conditions or other factors, which may result in cancellations of advance orders or a reduction or increase in the rate of reorders; • weakening of economic conditions or consumer confidence in future economic conditions, which could reduce demand for discretionary items; and • terrorism or acts of war, or the threat thereof, which could adversely affect consumer confidence and spending or interrupt production and distribution of product and raw materials. Inventory levels in excess of retailer and distributor demand may result in inventory write-downs or write-offs and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices, which would have an adverse effect on our gross margin. In addition, if we underestimate the demand for our products, our manufacturers may not be able to produce a sufficient number of products to meet such unanticipated demand, and this could result in delays in the shipment of our products and damage to our reputation and retailer or distributor relationships. The difficulty in forecasting demand also makes it difficult to estimate our future results of operations and financial condition from period to period. A failure to accurately predict the level of demand for our products could adversely impact our profitability. 20 Table of Contents Our management team and most of our board of directors have limited experience in managing and governing a public company, and regulatory compliance may divert our attention from the administration of our business. Our management team has limited experience managing a publicly-traded company or complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. In particular, our chief executive officer has not previously managed a publicly-traded company. In addition, most of our current directors have limited experience serving on the boards of public companies and two directors joined our board of directors in 2011. In order to have an effective board, these new directors and any other directors that join our board will need to integrate with our other directors and management and become familiar with our operations and growth strategies. We may not successfully or efficiently manage the increased legal, regulatory and reporting requirements associated with being a public company, including significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under federal securities laws. Our failure to comply with all applicable requirements could lead to the imposition of fines and penalties, distract our management team from attending to the administration of our business, result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We may be subject to product liability or warranty claims that could result in significant direct or indirect costs, or we could experience greater returns from retailers than expected, which could harm our net sales. We generally provide a limited lifetime warranty on all of our products. In addition, if a consumer breaks his or her headphones, we generally offer such consumer the option to buy another pair of headphones at a 50% discount to the retail price. The occurrence of any quality problems due to defects in our products could make us liable for damages and warranty claims in excess of our current reserves. In addition to the risk of direct costs to correct any defects, warranty claims or other problems, any negative publicity related to the perceived quality of our products could also affect our brand image, decrease retailer and distributor demand and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have entered into contracts with various customers and distributors granting a conditional right of return allowance with respect to defective products. We have also executed an open return program with a major retailer allowing for an unlimited amount of returns. Estimates for these items are based on actual experience and are recorded at the time net sales are recognized. If we experience a greater number of returns than expected, our net sales could be harmed. We expect to incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company, which may negatively impact our financial performance. We expect to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of becoming a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX, as well as related rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and The Nasdaq Stock Market, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of SOX and the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, will increase our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also believe these laws, rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and in the future we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as officers. Furthermore, any additional increases in legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses that we may experience in the future could negatively impact our financial performance and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws and unanticipated tax liabilities could adversely affect our effective income tax rate and profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective income tax rate could be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including: changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and any repatriation of non-US earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. We regularly assess all of these matters to determine the adequacy of our tax provision. If we fail to implement effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to operate our business. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to enable us to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have begun the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures in order to meet the requirements of Section 404 of SOX. Section 404 of SOX requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2012. We and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of SOX and could, as part of that documentation and testing, identify areas for further attention or improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require additional personnel, specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and require a significant period of time to complete. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 