Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our annual consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto before making a decision to purchase our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or not presently deemed material by us, may also impair our operations and performance. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If that happens, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Investing, Active Portfolio Management and Financing Strategy We may experience significant short-term gains or losses and, consequently, greater earnings volatility as a result of our active portfolio management strategy. Our Manager employs on our behalf an active management strategy to achieve our principal objectives of generating attractive risk-adjusted returns and preserving our net asset value. Our active management strategy involves buying and selling securities in all sectors of the agency securities market, including fixed-rate agency securities, adjustable-rate agency securities, options to enter into agency securities and agency CMOs, based on our Manager’s continual assessment of the relative risk and return of those securities. Therefore, the composition of our portfolio will vary as our Manager believes changes to market conditions, risks, and valuations warrant. Consequently, we may experience significant investment gains or losses when we sell securities that our Manager no longer believes provide attractive risk-adjusted returns or when our Manager believes more attractive alternatives are available in the agency securities market. With an active management strategy, our Manager may be incorrect in its assessment of our portfolio and select a portfolio that would generate worse returns than a more static management strategy. Also, investors are less able to assess the changes in our valuation and performance by observing changes in the agency securities market since we may have changed our strategy and portfolio from the last publicly available data. We may also experience fluctuations in leverage as we pursue our active management strategy. The conservatorship of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and related efforts, along with any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, may adversely affect our business. Due to increased market concerns about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s ability to withstand future credit losses associated with securities held in their investment portfolios, and on which they provide guarantees, without the direct support of the federal government, on July 30, 2008, the government passed the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (the “HERA”). On September 6, 2008, the FHFA placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship and, together with the U.S. Treasury, established a program designed to boost investor confidence in Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s debt and mortgage-backed securities. As the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the FHFA controls and directs the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and may (i) take over the assets of and operate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with all the powers of the stockholders, the directors and the officers of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and conduct all business of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (ii) collect all obligations and money due to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; (iii) perform all functions of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac which are consistent with the conservator’s appointment; (iv) preserve and conserve the assets and property of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac; and (v) contract for assistance in fulfilling any function, activity, action or duty of the conservator. A primary focus of the HERA was to increase the availability of mortgage financing by allowing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to continue to grow their guarantee business without limit, while limiting net purchases of agency securities to a modest amount through the end of 2009. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will begin gradually reducing the size of their agency security portfolios in 2010. 18 Table of Contents In addition to FHFA becoming the conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the U.S. Department of Treasury, or the U.S. Treasury, took three additional actions: (i) the U.S. Treasury and FHFA entered into preferred stock purchase agreements between the U.S. Treasury and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury required that each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac maintain a positive net worth; (ii) the U.S. Treasury established a secured lending credit facility which provided Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks access to a liquidity backstop; and (iii) the U.S. Treasury initiated a temporary program to purchase agency securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Initially, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac each issued $1.0 billion of senior preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury and warrants to purchase 79.9% of the fully-diluted common stock outstanding of each government sponsored enterprise, or GSE, at a nominal exercise price. Pursuant to these stock purchase agreements, each of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s mortgage and agency security portfolios may not exceed $900 billion as of December 31, 2009. In December 2009, these stock purchase agreements were amended to allow Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae additional flexibility to reduce the size of their portfolios over time, such that each portfolio will be required to decline by 10% of the maximum portfolio size permitted as of December 31, 2009 each year until such portfolio reaches $250 billion. Given the highly fluid and evolving nature of these events, it is unclear how our business will be impacted. Although the U.S. Treasury has committed capital to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, there can be no assurance that these actions will be adequate for their needs. If these actions are inadequate, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could continue to suffer losses and could fail to honor their guarantees and other obligations. The future roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be significantly reduced and the nature of their guarantees could be considerably limited relative to historical measurements. Any changes to the nature of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could redefine what constitutes an agency security and could have broad adverse market implications. In December 2009, the U.S. Treasury extended the duration and increased the size of its credit support commitment to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac under the HERA. However, the U.S. Treasury could stop providing credit support to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in the future. The problems faced by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac resulting in their being placed into conservatorship have stirred debate among some federal policy makers regarding the continued role of the federal government in providing liquidity for mortgage loans. Following expiration of the current authorization, each of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could be dissolved and the federal government could stop providing liquidity support of any kind to the mortgage market. If Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac were eliminated, or their structures were to change radically, we would not be able to acquire agency securities from these companies, which would eliminate the major component of our business model. On November 25, 2008, the Federal Reserve announced that it will initiate a program to purchase $100 billion in direct obligations of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $500 billion in agency securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae. In March 2009, the size of the direct obligation purchase program was expanded to $200 billion and the agency securities purchase program was expanded to a total of $1.25 trillion. Purchases of direct obligations began in December 2008 and purchases of agency securities began in January 2009. Both purchase programs are expected to be concluded in the first quarter of 2010. The Federal Reserve’s program to purchase agency securities could cause an increase in the price of agency securities, which would negatively impact the net interest margin with respect to new agency securities we may purchase. Our income could be negatively affected in a number of ways depending on the manner in which related events unfold. For example, the current credit support provided by the U.S. Treasury to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and any additional credit support it may provide in the future, could have the effect of lowering the interest rate we expect to receive from agency securities that we seek to acquire, thereby tightening the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. A reduction in the supply of agency securities could also negatively affect the pricing of agency securities we seek to acquire by reducing the spread between the interest we earn on our portfolio of targeted assets and our cost of financing that portfolio. 19 Table of Contents As indicated above, recent legislation has changed the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government and requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgage loans they own or for which they provide guarantees on agency securities. Future legislation could further change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and the federal government, and could also nationalize or eliminate such entities entirely. Any law affecting these GSEs may create market uncertainty and have the effect of reducing the actual or perceived credit quality of securities issued or guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As a result, such laws could increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac agency security. It also is possible that such laws could adversely impact the market for such securities and spreads at which they trade. All of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the actions of the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect, our business may not benefit from these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. Further, when the U.S. Government withdraws its support under these programs, the market may lose liquidity, adversely impacting us. In response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the U.S. Government has implemented a number of initiatives intended to bolster the banking system, the financial and housing markets and the economy as a whole. These initiatives include: (i) the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, or the EESA, which established the Troubled Asset Relief Program, (ii) the voluntary Capital Purchase Program which was implemented under authority provided in the EESA and gives the U.S. Treasury the authority to purchase up to $250 billion of senior preferred shares in qualifying U.S. controlled banks, saving associations, and certain bank and savings and loan holding companies engaged only in financial activities, (iii) a program to purchase $200 billion in direction obligations issued by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the Federal Home Loan Banks and $1.25 trillion in agency securities backed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, (iv) a program to purchase up to $300 billion of U.S. Treasury securities, (v) the creation of the PPIP for private investors to purchase mortgage-related assets from financial institutions and (vi) the TALF which is intended to increase securitization activity for various consumer and commercial loans and other financial assets, including student loans, automobile loans and leases, credit card receivables, SBA small business loans and commercial mortgage-backed securities. There can be no assurance that programs and proposals initiated and announced by the U.S. Treasury or the Federal Reserve will have a beneficial impact on the financial and housing markets or the banking system. To the extent the market does not respond favorably to these programs and proposals or the initiatives do not function as intended, our business may not receive the anticipated positive impact from the legislation. In addition, the Federal Reserve completed its U.S. Treasury securities purchase program in October 2009 and has announced that it intends to complete its agency securities purchase programs in March 2010. However, the ultimate size and timing of the Federal Reserve’s agency securities purchase program is subject to the discretion of the U.S. government. The impact of the government’s initiatives remain highly uncertain and we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. Treasury, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. When the Federal Reserve completes its agency securities purchase program in March 2010, spreads for mortgage backed securities may widen, negatively impacting the carrying values of our investment portfolio. In addition, the market’s liquidity, and our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, may be materially and adversely affected, by the withdraw of the U.S. government’s support of initiatives to bolster the banking system, financial and housing markets and the economy as a whole. 20 Table of Contents To the extent that we invest in agency securities that are guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we are subject to the risk that these U.S. Government-sponsored entities may not be able to fully satisfy their guarantee obligations or that these guarantee obligations may be repudiated, which may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and our ability to sell or finance these securities. The interest and principal payments we receive on the agency securities in which we invest are guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae. Unlike the Ginnie Mae certificates in which we may invest, the principal and interest on securities issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are not guaranteed by the U.S. government. All the agency securities in which we invest depend on a steady stream of payments on the mortgages underlying the securities. As conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, FHFA may disaffirm or repudiate contracts (subject to certain limitations for qualified financial contracts) that Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae entered into prior to FHFA’s appointment as conservator if it determines, in its sole discretion, that performance of the contract is burdensome and that disaffirmation or repudiation of the contract promotes the orderly administration of its affairs. The HERA requires FHFA to exercise its right to disaffirm or repudiate most contracts within a reasonable period of time after its appointment as conservator. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have disclosed that the FHFA has disaffirmed certain consulting and other contracts that these entities entered into prior to FHFA’s appointment as conservator. Freddie Mae and Fannie Mae have also disclosed that the FHFA has advised that it does not intend to repudiate any guarantee obligation relating to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s mortgage-related securities, because FHFA views repudiation as incompatible with the goals of the conservatorship. In addition, the HERA provides that mortgage loans and mortgage-related assets that have been transferred to a Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae securitization trust must be held for the beneficial owners of the related mortgage-related securities, and cannot be used to satisfy the general creditors of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae. If the guarantee obligations of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae were repudiated by FHFA, payments of principal and/or interest to holders of agency securities issued by Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae would be reduced in the event of any borrowers’ late payments or failure to pay or a servicer’s failure to remit borrower payments to the trust. In that case, trust administration and servicing fees could be paid from mortgage payments prior to distributions to holders of agency securities. Any actual direct compensatory damages owed due to the repudiation of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae’s guarantee obligations may not be sufficient to offset any shortfalls experienced by holders of agency securities. FHFA also has the right to transfer or sell any asset or liability of Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, including its guarantee obligation, without any approval, assignment or consent. If FHFA were to transfer Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae’s guarantee obligations to another party, holders of agency securities would have to rely on that party for satisfaction of the guarantee obligation and would be exposed to the credit risk of that party. New laws may be passed affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the U.S. Government, on the other, which could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency securities. Legislation has been passed and additional legislation may be proposed in the future to change the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, on the one hand, and the U.S. Government, on the other hand, or that requires Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or limit the amount of securities they guarantee. We intend to invest exclusively in agency securities. If any such further legislation is enacted into law, it may lead to market uncertainty and the actual or perceived impairment in the credit quality of securities issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. This may increase the risk of loss on investments in Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac-issued securities. Any legislation requiring Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to reduce the amount of mortgages they own or for which they guarantee payments on could adversely affect the availability and pricing of agency securities and therefore, adversely affect our business prospects. 21 Table of Contents Market conditions have disrupted the historical relationship between interest rate changes and prepayment trends, which make it more difficult for our Manager to analyze our investment portfolio. Our success depends on our Manager’s ability to analyze the relationship of changing interest rates on prepayments of the mortgage loans that underlie our agency securities. Changes in interest rates and prepayments affect the market price of the agency securities that we intend to purchase and any agency securities that we hold at a given time. As part of our overall portfolio risk management, our Manager analyzes interest rate changes and prepayment trends separately and collectively to assess their effects on our investment portfolio. In conducting its analysis, our Manager depends on certain assumptions based upon historical trends with respect to the relationship between interest rates and prepayments under normal market conditions. The recent dislocations in the residential mortgage market and other developments have disrupted the relationship between the way that prepayment trends have historically responded to interest rate changes and, consequently, may negatively impact our Manager’s ability to (i) assess the market value of our investment portfolio, (ii) implement our hedging strategies and (iii) implement techniques to reduce our prepayment rate volatility would be significantly affected, which could materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. Continued adverse developments in the broader residential mortgage market may adversely affect the value of the agency securities in which we invest. In 2008 and 2009, the residential mortgage market in the United States experienced a variety of unprecedented difficulties and changed economic conditions, including defaults, credit losses and liquidity concerns. Many of these conditions are expected to continue in 2010. Certain commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market. These losses reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions. These factors have impacted investor perception of the risk associated with real estate related assets, including agency securities and other high-quality RMBS assets. As a result, values for RMBS assets, including some agency securities and other AAA-rated RMBS assets, have experienced a certain amount of volatility. Further increased volatility and deterioration in the broader residential mortgage and RMBS markets may adversely affect the performance and market value of our agency securities. We invest exclusively in agency securities and rely on our agency securities as collateral for our financings. Any decline in their value, or perceived market uncertainty about their value, would likely make it difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or maintain our compliance with terms of any financing arrangements already in place. The agency securities we invest in are classified for accounting purposes as available-for-sale. All assets classified as available-for-sale are reported at fair value, based on market prices from third-party sources, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity. As a result, a decline in fair values may reduce the book value of our assets. Moreover, if the decline in fair value of an available-for-sale security is other-than-temporarily impaired, such decline will reduce earnings. If market conditions result in a decline in the fair value of our agency securities, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure to procure adequate repurchase agreement financing, or to renew (roll) or replace existing repurchase agreement financing as it matures, would adversely affect our results of operations and may, in turn, negatively affect the market value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We use repurchase agreement financing as a strategy to increase our return on equity. However, we may not be able to achieve our desired leverage ratio for a number of reasons, including if the following events occur: • our lenders do not make repurchase agreement financing available to us at acceptable rates; • certain of our lenders exit the repurchase market; • our lenders require that we pledge additional collateral to cover our borrowings, which we may be unable to do; or • we determine that the leverage would expose us to excessive risk. 22 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that any, or sufficient, repurchase agreement financing will be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable to us. In 2008 and 2009, there were several mergers, acquisitions or bankruptcies of investment banks and commercial banks that have historically acted as repurchase agreement counterparties. This resulted in a fewer number of potential repurchase agreement counterparties operating in the market. In addition, many commercial banks, investment banks and insurance companies announced extensive losses from exposure to the residential mortgage market in 2008 and 2009. These losses reduced financial industry capital, leading to reduced liquidity for some institutions. Institutions from which we seek to obtain financing may have owned or financed RMBS which have declined in value and caused them to suffer losses as a result of the recent downturn in the residential mortgage market. If these conditions persist, these institutions may be forced to exit the repurchase market, become insolvent or further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital or haircut required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. In the event that we cannot obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms, there may be a negative impact on the value of our common stock and our ability to make distributions, and you may lose part or all of your investment Furthermore, because we rely primarily on short-term borrowings, our ability to achieve our investment objective depends not only on our ability to borrow money in sufficient amounts and on favorable terms, but also on our ability to renew or replace on a continuous basis our maturing short-term borrowings. If we are not able to renew or replace maturing borrowings, we may have to sell some or all of our assets, possibly under adverse market conditions. Pursuant to the terms of borrowings under our master repurchase agreements, we are subject to margin calls that could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure. We have entered into master repurchase agreements with a number of financial institutions. We have borrowed under certain of these master repurchase agreements to finance the acquisition of agency securities for our investment portfolio. Pursuant to the terms of borrowings under our master repurchase agreements, a decline in the value of the agency securities may result in our lenders initiating margin calls. A margin call means that the lender requires us to pledge additional collateral to re-establish the ratio of the value of the collateral to the amount of the borrowing. The specific collateral value to borrowing ratio that would trigger a margin call is not set in the master repurchase agreements and will not be determined until we engage in a repurchase transaction under these agreements. Our fixed-rate agency securities generally may be more susceptible to margin calls as increases in interest rates tend to more negatively affect the market value of fixed-rate securities. In addition, certain of our agency securities may be more illiquid than other securities we invest in which could cause them to be more susceptible to margin calls in a volatile market environment. Moreover, agency securities that prepay more quickly also increase the frequency and magnitude of potential margin calls as there is a significant time lag between when the prepayment is reported (which reduces the market value of the security) and when the principal payment is actually received. If we are unable to satisfy margin calls, our lenders may foreclose on our collateral. The threat of or occurrence of a margin call could force us to sell, either directly or through a foreclosure, our agency securities under adverse market conditions. Because of the leverage we have, we may incur substantial losses upon the threat or occurrence of a margin call. Our borrowings, which are generally made under our master repurchase agreements, may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This special treatment would allow the lenders under these agreements to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to liquidate the collateral under these agreements without delay. 23 Table of Contents If our lenders pursuant to our repurchase transactions default on their obligations to resell the underlying agency security back to us at the end of the transaction term, or if the value of the underlying agency security has declined by the end of the term or if we default on our obligations under the transaction, we will lose money on these transactions. When we engage in a repurchase transaction, we initially sell securities to the financial institution under one of our master repurchase agreements in exchange for cash and our counterparty is obligated to resell the securities to us at the end of the term of the transaction, which is typically from 30 to 90 days, but which may have terms from one day to 364 days. The cash we receive when we initially sell the securities is less than the value of those securities, which is referred to as the haircut. As a result, we are able to borrow against a smaller portion of the agency securities we initially sell in these transactions. Increased haircuts require us to post additional collateral for our agency securities. The haircut rates under our master repurchase agreements we have entered into will not be set until we engage in a specific repurchase transaction under these agreements. If our counterparty defaults on its obligation to resell the securities to us we would incur a loss on the transaction equal to the amount of the haircut (assuming there was no change in the value of the securities). Any losses we incur on our repurchase transactions could adversely affect our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we default on one of our obligations under a repurchase transaction, the counterparty can terminate the transaction and cease entering into any other repurchase transactions with us. In that case, we would likely need to establish a replacement repurchase facility with another financial institution in order to continue to leverage our portfolio and carry out our investment strategy. There is no assurance we would be able to secure a suitable replacement facility on acceptable terms or at all. Differences in timing of interest rate adjustments on adjustable-rate agency securities we may acquire and our borrowings may adversely affect our profitability and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Certain of the agency securities we intend to acquire may be adjustable-rate agency securities. This means that their interest rates may vary over time based upon changes in an objective index, such as • LIBOR, the interest rate that banks in London offer for deposits in London of U.S. dollars; • the Treasury rate, a monthly or weekly average yield of benchmark U.S. Treasury securities, as published by the Federal Reserve Board; or • the CD rate, the weekly average or secondary market interest rates on six-month negotiable certificates of deposit, as published by the Federal Reserve Board. These indices generally reflect short-term interest rates. We rely primarily on short-term borrowings to acquire agency securities with long-term maturities. The relationship between short-term and longer-term interest rates is often referred to as the “yield curve.” Ordinarily, short-term interest rates are lower than longer-term interest rates. If short-term interest rates rise disproportionately relative to longer-term interest rates (a flattening of the yield curve), our borrowing costs may increase more rapidly than the interest income earned on our assets. Because we expect our investments in agency securities generally will bear interest based on longer-term rates than our borrowings, a flattening of the yield curve would tend to decrease our net income and the market value of the agency securities in our investment portfolio. Additionally, to the extent cash flows from investments that return scheduled and unscheduled principal are reinvested, the spread between the yields on the new investments and available borrowing rates may decline, which would likely decrease our net income. It is also possible that short-term interest rates may exceed longer-term interest rates (a yield curve inversion), in which event, our borrowing costs may exceed our interest income and we could incur operating losses, which would hinder our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Interest rate caps on our adjustable rate agency securities may adversely affect our profitability. Adjustable-rate agency securities will typically be subject to periodic and lifetime interest rate caps. Periodic interest rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase during any given period. Lifetime interest 24 Table of Contents rate caps limit the amount an interest rate can increase through the maturity of an agency security. Our borrowings typically will not be subject to similar restrictions. Accordingly, in a period of rapidly increasing interest rates, the interest rates paid on our borrowings could increase without limitation while caps could limit the interest rates on our adjustable-rate agency securities. This problem is magnified for hybrid adjustable-rate and adjustable-rate agency securities that are not fully indexed. Further, some hybrid adjustable-rate and adjustable-rate agency securities may be subject to periodic payment caps that result in a portion of the interest being deferred and added to the principal outstanding. As a result, we may receive less cash income on hybrid adjustable-rate and adjustable-rate agency securities than we need to pay interest on our related borrowings. These factors could reduce our net interest income and cause us to suffer a loss. An increase in interest rates may cause a decrease in the volume of newly issued, or investor demand for, agency securities, which could adversely affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, while a decrease in interest rates may cause an increase in the volume of newly issued, or investor demand for, agency securities, which could negatively affect the valuations for our agency securities and may adversely affect our liquidity profile. Rising interest rates generally reduce the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans, due to the higher cost of borrowing. A reduction in the volume of mortgage loans originated may affect the volume of agency securities available to us, which could affect our ability to acquire assets that satisfy our investment objectives. If rising interest rates cause us to be unable to acquire a sufficient volume of agency securities or agency securities with a yield that exceeds the borrowing cost, our ability to satisfy our investment objectives and to generate income and pay dividends, may be materially and adversely affected. Declining interest rates generally increase the demand for consumer credit, including mortgage loans, due to the lower cost of borrowing. An increase in the volume of mortgage loans originated may negatively impact the valuation for our existing investment portfolio. A negative impact on valuations of our agency securities could have an adverse impact on our liquidity profile in the event that we are required to post margin under our repurchase agreements, which could materially and adversely impact our business. Because we may acquire fixed-rate securities, an increase in interest rates on our borrowings may adversely affect our book value or our net interest income Increases in interest rates may negatively affect the market value of our agency securities. Any fixed-rate securities we invest in generally will be more negatively affected by these increases than adjustable-rate securities. In accordance with GAAP, we are required to reduce our stockholders’ equity, or book value, by the amount of any decrease in the fair value of our agency securities that are classified as available-for-sale. Reductions in stockholders’ equity could decrease the amounts we may borrow to purchase additional agency securities, which may restrict our ability to increase our net income. Furthermore, if our funding costs are rising while our interest income is fixed, our net interest income will contract and could become negative. Changes in prepayment rates may adversely affect our profitability. The agency securities in our investment portfolio are backed by pools of mortgage loans. We receive payments, generally, from the payments that are made on these underlying mortgage loans. When borrowers prepay their mortgage loans at rates that are faster or slower than expected, this results in prepayments that are faster or slower than expected on the related agency securities. These faster or slower than expected payments may adversely affect our profitability. We may purchase agency securities that have a higher interest rate than the then prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this higher interest rate, we may pay a premium to par value to acquire the security. In accordance with GAAP, we amortize this premium over the expected term of the agency security based on our prepayment assumptions. If the agency security is prepaid in whole or in part at a faster than expected rate, 25 Table of Contents however, we must expense all or a part of the remaining unamortized portion of the premium that was paid at the time of the purchase, which will adversely affect our profitability. We also may purchase agency securities that have a lower interest rate than the then prevailing market interest rate. In exchange for this lower interest rate, we may pay a discount to par value to acquire the security. We accrete this discount over the expected term of the agency security based on our prepayment assumptions. If the agency security is prepaid at a slower than expected rate, however, we must accrete the remaining portion of the discount at a slower than expected rate. This will extend the expected life of the portfolio and result in a lower than expected yield on securities purchased at a discount to par. Prepayment rates generally increase when interest rates fall and decrease when interest rates rise, but changes in prepayment rates are difficult to predict. Prepayments can also occur when borrowers sell the property and use the sale proceeds to prepay the mortgage as part of a physical relocation or when borrowers default on their mortgages and the mortgages are prepaid from the proceeds of a foreclosure sale of the property. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac will generally, among other conditions, purchase mortgages that are 120 days or more delinquent from MBS trusts when the cost of guarantee payments to security holders, including advances of interest at the security coupon rate, exceeds the cost of holding the nonperforming loans in their portfolios. Consequently, prepayment rates also may be affected by conditions in the housing and financial markets, which may result in increased delinquencies on mortgage loans, the GSEs’ cost of capital, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on FRM and ARM loans, which could lead to an acceleration of the payment of the related principal. In addition, the introduction of government programs, such as the U.S. Treasury’s HASP program, are expected to increase the availability of mortgage credit to a large number of homeowners in the U.S., which we expect will impact the prepayment rates for the entire mortgage securities market, but primarily for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac agency securities. While increased prepayment rates negatively impact our interest income for agency securities purchased at a premium, we believe we have sourced agency securities with collateral attributes that improve the prepayment profile of our investment portfolio. However, these are new programs and therefore there is substantial uncertainty around the magnitude of prepayment speed increases and our asset selection process may not provide the desired benefits. While we will seek to manage prepayment risk, in selecting investments we must balance prepayment risk against other risks, the potential returns of each investment and the cost of hedging our risks. No strategy can completely insulate us from prepayment or other such risks, and we may deliberately retain exposure to prepayment or other risks. An increase in prepayment speeds will cause an increase in our principal receivable balance, which cannot be financed through our repurchase agreements and will typically result in margins calls that could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure. On February 10, 2010, Freddie Mac announced that it will purchase, from the company’s related fixed-rate and adjustable-rate (“ARM”) mortgage Participation Certificate (“PC”) securities, substantially all mortgage loans that are 120 days or more delinquent and Fannie Mae announced that it intends to increase significantly its purchases of delinquent loans from single-family MBS trusts. Freddie Mac will purchase substantially all of the delinquent loans in February 2010. Fannie Mae will begin to purchase delinquent loans in March 2010 and expects to purchase a significant portion of their current delinquent population within a few month period, subject to market, servicer capacity and other constraints. These actions are collectively referred to herein as the “GSE buyouts”. The GSE buyouts will have the effect of substantially increasing the prepayment speeds of the subject Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities until the purchases are complete. The exact impact is difficult to determine and may not be uniform, even among securities with similar mortgage pool characteristics. Nevertheless, we believe that certain characteristics render a mortgage pool particularly susceptible to having seriously delinquent mortgages subject to the GSE buyouts and that prepayment speed increases will be 26 Table of Contents disproportionally concentrated in securities backed by mortgage pools with these characteristics. These characteristics include having higher coupon or interest-only mortgages or having mortgages that were originated during certain periods of high home price appreciation, which were followed by periods of decline. Consequently, we may experience a significant increase in prepayments as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac complete their purchases of delinquent loans. Securities that prepay more quickly, regardless of the source of the prepayment, also increase the frequency and magnitude of potential margin calls under our repurchase agreements as there is a significant time lag between when the prepayment is reported (which reduces the market value of the security) and when the principal payment is actually received. Since we are unable to finance the resultant increase in our principal receivable balance, we may be unable to satisfy the margin calls. If we are unable to satisfy the margin calls our lenders may foreclose on our collateral. The threat of or occurrence of a margin call could force us to sell, either directly or through a foreclosure, our agency securities under adverse market conditions. Because of leverage, we may incur substantial losses upon the threat or occurrence of a margin call. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating the risks associated with interest rates. Subject to complying with REIT tax requirements, we intend to employ techniques that limit, or “hedge,” the adverse effects of rising interest rates on our short-term repurchase agreements. In general, our hedging strategy depends on our Manager’s view of our entire portfolio, consisting of assets, liabilities and derivative instruments, in light of prevailing market conditions. Our hedging activities are generally designed to limit certain exposures and not to eliminate them. In addition, they may be unsuccessful and we could misjudge the condition of our investment portfolio or the market. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates and principal repayments, the type of securities held and other changing market conditions. Our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. These techniques may include entering into interest rate swap agreements, interest rate swaptions, caps, collars, floors, forward contracts, options or futures. We may conduct certain hedging transactions through our TRS, which will be subject to federal, state and, if applicable, local income tax. There are no perfect hedging strategies, and interest rate hedging may fail to protect us from loss. Alternatively, our Manager may fail to properly assess a risk to our investment portfolio or may fail to recognize a risk entirely leaving us exposed to losses without the benefit of any offsetting hedging activities. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. The nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging activities could result in losses if the event against which we hedge does not occur. For example, interest rate hedging could fail to protect us or adversely affect us because, among other things: • available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • as explained in further detail in the risk factor immediately below, the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the value of derivatives used for hedging may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with GAAP to reflect changes in fair value. Downward adjustments, or “mark-to-market losses,” would reduce our stockholders’ equity. Whether the derivatives we acquire achieve hedge accounting treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (“SFAS 27 Table of Contents No. 133”), which is codified in Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (“ASC 815”), or not, hedging generally involves costs and risks. Our hedging strategies may adversely affect us because hedging activities involve costs that we will incur regardless of the effectiveness of the hedging activity. Those costs may be higher in periods of market volatility, both because the counterparties to our derivative agreements may demand a higher payment for taking risks, and because repeated adjustments of our hedges during periods of interest rate changes also may increase costs. Especially if our hedging strategies are not effective, we could incur significant hedging-related costs without any corresponding economic benefits. Our use of certain hedging techniques may expose us to counterparty risks. If a swap counterparty under an interest rate swap agreement that we intend to enter into as part of our hedging strategy cannot perform under the terms of the interest rate swap, we may not receive payments due under that agreement, and thus, we may lose any unrealized gain associated with the interest rate swap. The hedged liability could cease to be hedged by the interest rate swap. Additionally, we may also risk the loss of any collateral we have pledged to secure our obligations under the interest rate swap if the counterparty becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy. Similarly, if an interest rate cap counterparty fails to perform under the terms of the interest rate cap agreement, in addition to not receiving payments due under that agreement that would off-set our interest expense, we could also incur a loss for all remaining unamortized premium paid for that security. Pursuant to the terms of our master swap agreements, we are subject to margin calls that could result in defaults or force us to sell assets under adverse market conditions or through foreclosure. Certain of our master swap agreements (governed by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. or “ISDA”) require that we post initial collateral upon execution of swap agreements. In addition, our master swap agreements contain provisions under which we are required to fully collateralize our obligations under the derivative instrument, such that if at any point the fair value of the derivative represents a liability greater than the minimum transfer amount contained within our agreement, the counter-party may initiate a margin call for the difference. If we fail to satisfy the margin call we will be required to settle our obligations under the agreements at their termination values. The threat of or occurrence of margin calls could force us to sell, either directly or through a foreclosure, our agency securities under adverse market conditions. Because of the leverage we have, we may incur substantial losses upon the threat or occurrence of margin calls. We may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment. We record derivative and hedge transactions in accordance with ASC 815. Under this standard, we may fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment for a number of reasons, including if we use instruments that do not meet the ASC 815 definition of a derivative (such as short sales), we fail to satisfy ASC 815 hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements or our instruments are not highly effective. If we fail to qualify for hedge accounting treatment, our operating results may suffer because losses on the derivatives that we enter into may not be offset by a change in the fair value of the related hedged transaction. Our strategy involves significant leverage, which may cause substantial losses. Our leverage may vary periodically depending on market conditions, but we generally expect our leverage to vary with market conditions and our assessment of risk and returns. We generally would expect our leverage to be within six to eleven times the amount of our stockholders’ equity However, under certain market conditions, we may operate at leverage levels outside of this range for extended periods of time. We will incur this leverage by borrowing against a substantial portion of the market value of our agency securities. By incurring this leverage, we could enhance our returns. Nevertheless, this leverage, which is fundamental to our investment strategy, also creates significant risks. 28 Table of Contents Because of our significant leverage, we may incur substantial losses if our borrowing costs increase. Our borrowing costs may increase for any of the following reasons: • short-term interest rates increase; • interest rate volatility increases; or • the availability of financing in the market decreases. Our rights under our repurchase agreements will be subject to the effects of the bankruptcy laws in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of us or our lenders under the repurchase agreements. In the event of our insolvency or bankruptcy, certain repurchase agreements may qualify for special treatment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the effect of which, among other things, would be to allow the lender under the applicable repurchase agreement to avoid the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and to foreclose on the collateral agreement without delay. In the event of the insolvency or bankruptcy of a lender during the term of a repurchase agreement, the lender may be permitted, under applicable insolvency laws, to repudiate the contract, and our claim against the lender for damages may be treated simply as an unsecured creditor. In addition, if the lender is a broker or dealer subject to the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970, or an insured depository institution subject to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, our ability to exercise our rights to recover our securities under a repurchase agreement or to be compensated for any damages resulting from the lender’s insolvency may be further limited by those statutes. These claims would be subject to significant delay and, if and when received, may be substantially less than the damages we actually incur. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common stock. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which could dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may raise capital through the issuance of debt or equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred stock, if any, and lenders with respect to other borrowings will be entitled to our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to pay dividends to the holders of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in us. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress the price of our shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sales on the market price of our common stock. Any sales of a substantial number of our shares in the public market, or the perception that sales might occur, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. 29 Table of Contents American Capital currently owns approximately 10.3% of our outstanding common stock, which it acquired in a private placement concurrent with our IPO. Our Board of Directors granted American Capital an exemption from the 9.8% ownership limitation. We entered into a registration rights agreement with American Capital with respect to this common stock, pursuant to which beginning in May 2011, American Capital will have (i) unlimited demand registration rights to have these shares registered for resale and (ii) the right to “piggy-back” these shares in registration statements we might file in connection with any future public offering so long as we retain our Manager as our manager. American Capital may also sell these shares in a transaction that is not subject to registration under the Securities Act if an exemption from such registration is available. We cannot predict the effect that any sale of our common stock by American Capital will have on the market price of our common stock. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to pay dividends in the future. We intend to pay quarterly dividends to our stockholders. We have not established a minimum dividend payment level and the amount of our dividend will fluctuate. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, the requirements for REIT qualification and such other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future or our Board of Directors may change our dividend policy in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to pay dividends in excess of our current and accumulated tax earnings and profits, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. A return of capital reduces the basis of a stockholder’s investment in our common stock to the extent of such basis and is treated as capital gain thereafter. American Capital owns a significant percentage of our common stock, which could result in significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to the vote of our stockholders. American Capital currently owns approximately 10.3% of our outstanding common stock, which it acquired in a private placement concurrent with our IPO. As a result, American Capital has significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of our directors or transactions involving a change in control. The interests of American Capital may conflict with, or differ from, the interests of other holders of our common stock. So long as American Capital continues to own a significant percentage of shares of our common stock, it will significantly influence all our corporate decisions submitted to our stockholders for approval, regardless of whether we terminate the management agreement with our Manager. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may restrict our business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first year in which we qualify as a REIT. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, with certain exceptions, authorizes our Board of Directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to qualify as a REIT. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, no person may beneficially or constructively own more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of our common or capital stock. Our Board of Directors may grant an exemption from this 9.8% stock ownership limitation, in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine are reasonably necessary. Our Board of Directors granted American Capital an exemption from this ownership limitation. Pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our Board of Directors has the power to increase or decrease the percentage of common or capital stock that a person may beneficially or constructively own. However, any decreased stock ownership limit will not apply to any person whose percentage ownership of our common or capital stock, as the case may be, is in excess of such decreased stock ownership limit until that person’s percentage ownership of our 30 Table of Contents common or capital stock, as the case may be, equals or falls below the decreased stock ownership limit. Until such a person’s percentage ownership of our common or capital stock, as the case may be, falls below such decreased stock ownership limit, any further acquisition of common stock will be in violation of the decreased stock ownership limit. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation apply to the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations are intended to assist us in complying with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The stock ownership limitation contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation generally does not permit ownership in excess of 9.8% of our common or capital stock, and attempts to acquire our common or capital stock in excess of these limits will be ineffective unless an exemption is granted by our Board of Directors. As described above, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation generally prohibits beneficial or constructive ownership by any person of more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our common or capital stock, unless exempted by our Board of Directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation’s constructive ownership rules are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than these percentages of the outstanding stock by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of these percentages of the outstanding stock and thus be subject to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation’s ownership limit. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common or preferred stock (if and when issued) in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of the Board of Directors will result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or, if the transfer to a charitable trust would not be effective, such transfer being treated as invalid from the outset. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. We could issue a series of preferred stock to impede the completion of a merger, tender offer or other takeover attempt. The anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may impede takeover attempts, or other transactions, that may be in the best interests of our stockholders and, in particular, our common stockholders. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws discourage potential takeover attempts, or other transactions, that our stockholders may favor. Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest in Our Relationship with Our Manager and American Capital The management agreement was not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and the terms, including fees payable, may not be as favorable to us as if it were negotiated with an unaffiliated third party The management agreement was negotiated between related parties, and we did not have the benefit of arm’s-length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. The terms of the management agreement, including fees payable, may not reflect the terms we may have received if it was negotiated with an unrelated third party. In addition, as a result of this relationship, we may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under the management agreement because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with our Manager. 31 Table of Contents We have no employees and our Manager is responsible for making all of our investment decisions. Certain of our Manager’s officers are employees of American Capital and are not required to devote any specific amount of time to our business and each of them may provide their services to American Capital, its affiliates and sponsored investment vehicles or other entities not affiliated with American Capital, which could result in conflicts of interest. Because we have no employees, our Manager is responsible for making all of our investments. Certain of our and our Manager’s officers, are employees of American Capital or its affiliates and these persons do not devote their time exclusively to us. Our Manager’s investment committee consists of Messrs. Malon Wilkus, John R. Erickson, Samuel A. Flax and Thomas A. McHale, each of whom are officers of American Capital and have significant responsibilities to American Capital and certain of its various portfolio companies, affiliated entities or managed funds. Because certain of our and our Manager’s officers are also responsible for providing services to American Capital and/or certain of its portfolio companies, affiliated entities or managed funds, they may not devote sufficient time to the management of our business operations. American Capital has agreed that so long as the Manager or an affiliate of American Capital continues to manage our company, it will not sponsor an investment vehicle that invests predominantly in whole pool agency securities other than us. This restriction does not prevent American Capital or an affiliate of American Capital from investing in or sponsoring an investment vehicle that targets investments in agency securities as long as that entity also targets investments in other types of investments, and as a result, American Capital or an affiliate of American Capital may compete with us. Our Board of Directors has adopted investment guidelines that require that any investment transaction between us and American Capital or any affiliate of American Capital receives the prior approval of a majority of our independent directors. However, this policy does not eliminate the conflicts of interest that our and our Manager’s officers will face in making investment decisions on behalf of American Capital, any other American Capital-sponsored investment vehicles and us. Further, we do not have any agreement or understanding with American Capital that would give us any priority over American Capital, any of its affiliates, or any such American Capital-sponsored investment vehicle in opportunities to invest in agency securities. Accordingly, we may compete for access to the benefits that we expect our relationship with our Manager and American Capital to provide. Our Manager and American Capital do not have extensive institutional experience in acquiring or financing agency securities. Prior to September 2007, American Capital did not pursue a residential real estate or agency security investment strategy, and therefore neither our Manager nor American Capital has extensive institutional experience in acquiring or financing agency securities. We are completely dependent upon our Manager and certain key personnel of American Capital who provide services to us through the management agreement and the administrative services agreement and we may not find suitable replacements for our Manager and these personnel if the management agreement and the administrative services agreement are terminated or such key personnel are no longer available to us. Because we have no employees or separate facilities, we are completely dependent on our Manager to conduct our operations pursuant to the management agreement. Our Manager has its own employees, which conduct its day-to-day operations, and has also entered into an administrative services agreement with American Capital pursuant to which our Manager is provided those additional personnel, services and resources necessary for our Manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our Manager. Neither the administrative services agreement nor the management agreement requires our Manager or American Capital to dedicate specific personnel to our operations nor requires any specific personnel of American Capital to dedicate a specific amount of time to our business. Additionally, because we rely on American Capital, we may be negatively impacted by an event or factors that negatively impacts American Capital’s business or financial condition. 32 Table of Contents After the initial term of the management agreement, which expires on May 20, 2011, or upon the expiration of any automatic renewal term, our Manager may elect not to renew the management agreement without cause, without penalty, on 180-days prior written notice to us. If we elect not to renew the management agreement without cause, we would have to pay a termination fee (as described further below). If we terminate the management agreement without cause, we may not, without the consent of our Manager, employ any employee of the Manager or any of its affiliates, including American Capital, or any person who has been employed by our Manager or any of its affiliates at any time within the two year period immediately preceding the date on which the person commences employment with us for two years after such termination of the management agreement. We do not have retention agreements with any of our officers. We believe that the successful implementation of our investment and financing strategies depends to a significant extent upon the experience of certain of American Capital’s executive officers. None of these individuals’ continued service is guaranteed. If the management agreement is terminated or these individuals leave American Capital, we may be unable to execute our business plan. We have no recourse to American Capital if it does not fulfill its obligations under the administrative services agreement. We do not have any employees or separate facilities. Our Manager has its own employees, which conduct its day-to-day operations, and has also entered into an administrative services agreement with American Capital pursuant to which our Manager is provided those additional personnel, services and resources necessary for our Manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our Manager. Although the administrative services agreement may not be terminated unless the management agreement has been terminated pursuant to its terms, American Capital may assign its rights and obligations thereunder to any of its affiliates, including American Capital, LLC, the parent company of our Manager. In addition, because we are not a party to the administrative services agreement, we do not have any recourse to American Capital if it does not fulfill its obligations under the administrative services agreement or it elects to assign the agreement to one of its affiliates. If we elect to not renew the management agreement without cause, we would be required to pay our Manager a substantial termination fee. These and other provisions in our management agreement make non-renewal of our management agreement difficult and costly. Electing not to renew the management agreement without cause would be difficult and costly for us. With the consent of the majority of our independent directors, we may elect not to renew our management agreement after the initial term of the management agreement, which expires on May 20, 2011, or upon the expiration of any automatic renewal term, both upon 180-days prior written notice. If we elect to not renew the agreement because of a decision by our Board of Directors that the management fee is unfair, our Manager has the right to renegotiate a mutually agreeable management fee. If we elect to not renew the management agreement without cause, we are required to pay our Manager a termination fee equal to three times the average annual management fee earned by our Manager during the prior 24-month period immediately preceding the most recently completed month prior to the effective date of termination. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of electing to not renew the management agreement. Our Manager’s management fee is payable regardless of our performance. Our Manager is entitled to receive a management fee from us that is based on the amount of our Equity (as defined in our management agreement), regardless of the performance of our investment portfolio. For example, we would pay our Manager a management fee for a specific period even if we experienced a net loss during the same period. Our Manager’s entitlement to substantial nonperformance-based compensation may reduce its incentive to devote sufficient time and effort to seeking investments that provide attractive risk-adjusted returns for our investment portfolio. This in turn could harm our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Management Agreement Structure The fee structure of our management agreement may limit our Manager’s ability to retain access to its key personnel and key personnel of American Capital. Because we do not have any employees, we rely on our Manager to administer our business activities and day-to-day operations. Our Manager has its own employees, which conduct its day-to-day operations, and has also entered into an administrative services agreement with American Capital pursuant to which our Manager is provided those additional personnel, services and resources necessary for our Manager to perform its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement in exchange for certain fees payable by our Manager. Thus, we are dependent upon certain personnel of American Capital. Under the terms of our management agreement, we pay our Manager a base management fee payable monthly in arrears in amount equal to one twelfth of 1.25% of our Equity. Our Equity is defined as our month-end stockholders’ equity, adjusted to exclude the effect of any unrealized gains or losses included in either retained earnings or OCI, each as computed in accordance with GAAP. Our Manager uses the proceeds from the management fee in part to pay American Capital for services provided to us by its employees, including members of its senior management, pursuant to the terms of the administrative services agreement. Our management agreement does not provide our Manager with an incentive management fee that would pay our Manager additional compensation as a result of meeting performance targets. However, many of our externally managed competitors pay their managers an incentive management fee, which could enable the manager to provide additional compensation to its key personnel. Thus, the lack of an incentive fee in our management agreement may limit the ability of our Manager, and ultimately American Capital to provide key personnel of American Capital, with additional compensation for strong performance, which could adversely affect our Manager or American Capital’s ability to retain these key personnel. If our Manager or American Capital were not able to retain any of the key personnel that are currently providing services to our Manager or us, it would have to find replacement personnel to provide those services. However, those replacement key personnel may not be able to produce the same operating results as the current key personnel. Risks Related to Our Business Structure Loss of our exemption from regulation pursuant to the Investment Company Act would adversely affect us. We conduct our business so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act in reliance on the exemption provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. Section 3(c)(5)(C), as interpreted by the staff of the SEC, requires that: (i) at least 55% of our investment portfolio consist of “mortgages and other liens on and interest in real estate,” or “qualifying real estate interests,” and (ii) at least 80% of our investment portfolio consist of qualifying real estate interests plus “real estate-related assets.” In satisfying this 55% requirement, we may treat agency securities issued with respect to an underlying pool of mortgage loans in which we hold all of the certificates issued by a pool as qualifying real estate interests. Therefore, the agency securities and any other mortgage-related assets that we acquire are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. If the SEC determines that any of these securities are not qualifying interests in real estate or real estate-related assets, adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exceptions, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. We may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our agency securities and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher yielding agency securities. The net effect of these factors would be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company or an exclusion from the definition of an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if we fail to qualify for this exemption from regulation pursuant to the Investment Company Act. 34 Table of Contents We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal control over financial reporting. We are required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires Exchange Act-reporting companies to assess and attest to the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting and requires their independent registered public accounting firm to audit the effectiveness of the company’s internal controls over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that we will continue to receive an unqualified opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm with regard to the effectiveness our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, legislation regarding Exchange Act-reporting companies’ internal controls over financial reporting, or other aspects of these companies’ compliance with federal securities laws, may, in the future, be amended so as to impose additional burdens on us. Any failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and the trading price of our common stock. We are highly dependent on information and communications systems. Any systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect our operations and the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Our business is highly dependent on communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of our Manager’s systems could cause delays or other problems in our agency securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect our operating results and the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT If we do not qualify as a REIT or fail to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to tax as a regular corporation and could face a substantial tax liability, which would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We are presently operating in a manner that allows us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. We have received an opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP (“Skadden”) with respect to our qualification as a REIT. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or any court. The opinion of Skadden represents only the view of our counsel based on our counsel’s review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us and our Manager, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. The opinion was expressed as of the date issued and will not cover subsequent periods. Skadden will have no obligation to advise us or the holders of our common stock of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed, or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of Skadden, and our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by Skadden. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements as described below. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or in securities of other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and dividends paid to our stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any resulting 35 Table of Contents corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we failed to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates has been reduced by legislation to 15% through the end of 2010. Dividends payable by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends payable by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. For example, if we purchase agency securities at a discount, we are generally required to accrete the discount into taxable income prior to receiving the cash proceeds of the accreted discount at maturity. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our stockholders’ equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through our TRS or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate-level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to 36 Table of Contents our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be unable to pursue investments that would be otherwise advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset-diversification requirements for qualifying as a REIT. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and agency securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. The failure of agency securities subject to repurchase agreements to qualify as real estate assets could adversely affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. We enter into financing arrangements that are structured as sale and repurchase agreements pursuant to which we would nominally sell certain of our agency securities to a counterparty and simultaneously enter into an agreement to repurchase these securities at a later date in exchange for a purchase price. Economically, these agreements are financings which are secured by the agency securities sold pursuant thereto. We believe that we would be treated for REIT asset and income test purposes as the owner of the agency securities that are the subject of any such sale and repurchase agreement notwithstanding that such agreement may transfer record ownership of the agency securities to the counterparty during the term of the agreement. It is possible, however, that the IRS could assert that we did not own the agency securities during the term of the sale and repurchase agreement, in which case we could fail to qualify as a REIT. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT qualification. To qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the 95% gross income test, but would generally constitute non-qualifying income for purposes of the 75% gross income test. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we intend to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through our TRS. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRS would be subject 37 Table of Contents to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in our TRS will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the TRS. Qualifying as a REIT involves highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which only limited judicial and administrative authorities exist. Even a technical or inadvertent violation could jeopardize our REIT qualification. Our qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. In addition, our ability to satisfy the requirements to qualify as a REIT depends in part on the actions of third-parties over which we have no control or only limited influence. As a REIT, if we derive net income from prohibited transactions (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code provisions) it is subject to a 100% tax. Net income that we derive from a prohibited transaction is subject to a 100% tax. The term “prohibited transaction” generally includes a sale or other disposition of property (including agency securities, but other than foreclosure property, as discussed below) that is held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business by us or by a borrower that has issued a shared appreciation mortgage or similar debt instrument to us. We intend to conduct our operations so that no asset that we own (or are treated as owning) will be treated as, or as having been, held for sale to customers, and that a sale of any such asset will not be treated as having been in the ordinary course of our business. Whether property is held “primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business” depends on the particular facts and circumstances. No assurance can be given that any property that we sell will not be treated as property held for sale to customers, or that we can comply with certain safe-harbor provisions of the Internal Revenue Code that would prevent such treatment. The 100% tax does not apply to gains from the sale of property that is held through a TRS or other taxable corporation, although such income will be subject to tax in the hands of the corporation at regular corporate rates. We intend to structure our activities to avoid prohibited transaction characterization. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 