Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report and in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the following are some of the potential risk factors that could cause the Company’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. These factors, as well as the other information contained in this document, should be carefully considered when evaluating an investment in the Company’s securities. Any of the following risks could have material adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition, operating results and cash flow. The below list of important factors is not all-inclusive or necessarily in order of importance. 10 Table of Contents Worldwide economic conditions and credit tightening could materially adversely affect the Company. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers may postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in products delays, inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products, insolvencies; and inability of customers to pay accounts receivable owed to the Company, or delays in the payment of such receivables. Additionally, if these economic conditions persist, the Company’s intangible assets may be impaired. The price of our common stock has been volatile and could continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of the Company’s common stock has fluctuated significantly and is likely to continue to fluctuate in the future. Announcements by the Company or others regarding the receipt of customer orders, quarterly variations in operating results, acquisitions or divestitures, additional equity or debt financings, litigation, product developments, patent or proprietary rights, government regulation and general market conditions may have a significant impact on the market price of the Company’s common stock. If the Company’s raw materials or energy were to become unavailable or to significantly increase in price, the Company might not be able to timely produce products for its customers or maintain its profit levels. Quanex requires substantial amounts of raw materials, substantially all of which are purchased from outside sources. The Company does not have long-term contracts for the supply of most of its raw materials. The availability and prices of raw materials may be subject to curtailment or change due to new laws or regulations, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers or interruptions in production by suppliers. In addition, the operation of the Company’s facilities requires substantial amounts of electric power and natural gas. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials could affect its ability to timely produce products for its customers. The Company depends on supplier relationships, insurance providers, and other vendors, and any disruptions in these relationships may cause damage to its customer relationships or delays to its business. There can be no assurance that the Company’s suppliers will be able to meet the Company’s future requirements for products and components in a timely fashion. In addition, the availability of many of these components is dependent in part on the Company’s ability to provide its suppliers with accurate forecasts of the Company’s future requirements. Delays or lost sales could be caused by other factors beyond the Company’s control, including late deliveries by vendors. If the Company were required to identify alternative suppliers for any of its required components, qualification and pre-production periods could be lengthy and may cause an increase in component costs and delays in providing products to customers. Any extended interruption in the supply of any of the key components currently obtained from limited sources could disrupt the Company’s operations and have a material adverse effect on customer relationships and profitability. 11 Table of Contents Portions of the Company’s business are generally cyclical in nature. Fewer housing starts, reduced remodeling expenditures or weaknesses in the economy could significantly reduce revenue, net earnings and cash flow. Demand for the Company’s products is cyclical in nature and sensitive to general economic conditions. The Company’s business supports cyclical industries such as the building and construction industries. The primary drivers of the Company’s business are housing starts and remodeling expenditures. The building and construction industry is cyclical and seasonal, and product demand is based on numerous factors such as interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence and other factors beyond the Company’s control. Declines in housing starts and remodeling expenditures due to such factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The recent downturn in the housing market has had an adverse effect on the operating results of the Company’s building products business. Further deterioration in industry conditions or in the broader economic conditions of the markets where the Company operates could further decrease demand and pricing for its products and have additional adverse effects on its operations and financial results. The Company is subject to various environmental requirements, and compliance with, or liabilities under, existing or future environmental laws and regulations could significantly increase the Company’s costs of doing business. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment and the remediation of chemical contamination. To satisfy such requirements, the Company must make capital and other expenditures on an ongoing basis. For example, environmental agencies continue to develop regulations implementing the Federal Clean Air Act. Depending on the nature of the regulations adopted, the Company may be required to incur additional capital and other expenditures in the next several years for air pollution control equipment, to maintain or obtain operating permits and approvals, and to address other air emission-related issues. Future expenditures relating to environmental matters will necessarily depend upon the application to the Company and its facilities of future regulations and government decisions. It is likely that the Company will be subject to increasingly stringent environmental standards and the additional expenditures related to compliance with such standards. Furthermore, if the Company fails to comply with applicable environmental regulations, the Company could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. The Company may not be able to successfully identify, manage or integrate future acquisitions, and if it is unable to do so, the Company’s rate of growth and profitability could be adversely affected. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or, if it does, that it will be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business effectively and profitably into its existing operations. Integration of future acquired businesses could disrupt the Company’s business by diverting management’s attention away from day-to-day operations. Further, failure to successfully integrate any acquisition may cause significant operating inefficiencies and could adversely affect the Company’s profitability. Consummating an acquisition could require the Company to raise additional funds through additional equity or debt financing. Additional equity financing could depress the market price of the Company’s common stock. 12 Table of Contents The Company operates in competitive markets, and its business will suffer if it is unable to adequately address potential downward pricing pressures and other factors that may reduce operating margins. The principal markets that the Company serves are highly competitive. Competition is based primarily on the precision and range of achievable tolerances, quality, price and the ability to meet delivery schedules dictated by customers. The Company’s competition in the markets in which it participates comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial and other resources than the Company does and some of which have more established brand names in the markets the Company serves. Any of these competitors may foresee the course of market development more accurately than the Company does, develop products that are superior to the Company’s products, have the ability to produce similar products at a lower cost than the Company can, or adapt more quickly than the Company to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Increased competition could force the Company to lower its prices or to offer additional services at a higher cost to the Company, which could reduce its gross profit and net income. Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) have significant pricing leverage over suppliers and may be able to achieve price reductions over time, which will reduce the Company’s profits. The Company’s products are sold primarily to OEMs, and to a much lesser extent, sold through distributors. There is substantial and continuing pressure from OEMs in all industries to reduce the prices they pay to suppliers. The Company attempts to manage such downward pricing pressure, while trying to preserve its business relationships with its OEM customers, by seeking to reduce its production costs through various measures, including purchasing raw materials and components at lower prices and implementing cost- effective process improvements. However, the Company’s suppliers may resist pressure to lower their prices and may seek to impose price increases. If the Company is unable to offset OEM price reductions through these measures, its gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, OEMs have substantial leverage in setting purchasing and payment terms, including the terms of accelerated payment programs under which payments are made prior to the account due date in return for an early payment discount. The Company could lose customers and the related revenues due to the transfer of manufacturing capacity by its customers out of the United States to lower cost regions of the world. Manufacturing activity in the United States has been on the decline over the past several years. One of the reasons for this decline is the migration by U.S. manufacturers to other regions of the world that offer lower cost labor forces. The combined effect is that U.S. manufacturers can reduce product costs by manufacturing and assembling in other regions of the world and then importing those products to the United States. Some of the Company’s customers have shifted production to other regions of the world and there can be no assurance that this trend will not continue. The Company may lose customers and revenues if its customers locate in areas that the Company chooses not to serve or cannot economically serve. If the Company’s relationship with its employees were to deteriorate, the Company could be faced with labor shortages, disruptions or stoppages, which could shut down certain of its operations, reducing revenue, net earnings, and cash flows. The Company’s operations rely heavily on its employees, and any labor shortage, disruption or stoppage caused by poor relations with its employees and/or renegotiation of labor contracts could shut down certain of its operations. Approximately 24% of the Company’s employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements which expire between 2009 and 2011. It is possible that the Company could become subject to additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions, or that work stoppages or other labor disturbances could occur in the future, any of which could impact financial results. Similarly, any failure to negotiate a new labor agreement when required might result in a work stoppage that could reduce the Company’s operating margins and income. 13 Table of Contents Changes in regulatory requirements or new technologies may render the Company’s products obsolete or less competitive. Changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies may render certain of the Company’s products obsolete or less competitive, preventing the Company from selling them at profitable prices, or at all. The Company’s ability to anticipate changes in technology and regulatory standards and to successfully develop and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely and cost-efficient basis will be a significant factor in its ability to remain competitive. The Company’s business may, therefore, require significant ongoing and recurring additional capital expenditures and investments in research and development. The Company may not be able to achieve the technological advances necessary for it to remain competitive or certain of its products may become obsolete. The Company is also subject to the risks generally associated with new product introductions and applications, including lack of market acceptance, delays in product development and failure of products to operate properly. Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of the Company’s manufacturing facilities could lead to production curtailments or shutdowns that prevent the Company from producing its products. An interruption in production capabilities at any of the Company’s facilities as a result of equipment failure or other reasons could result in the Company’s inability to produce its products, which would reduce its sales and earnings for the affected period. In addition, the Company generally manufactures its products only after receiving the order from the customer and thus does not hold large inventories. If there is a stoppage in production at any of the Company’s manufacturing facilities, even if only temporarily, or if the Company experiences delays as a result of events that are beyond its control, delivery times could be severely affected. Any significant delay in deliveries to the Company’s customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations and cause the Company to lose future sales. The Company’s manufacturing facilities are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events such as fires, explosions or violent weather conditions. The Company has in the past and may in the future experience plant shutdowns or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failure, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. The Company may not have adequate insurance to compensate its for all losses that result from any of these events. The Company’s business involves complex manufacturing processes that may result in costly accidents or other disruptions of its operations. The Company’s business involves complex manufacturing processes. Some of these processes involve high pressures, temperatures, hot metal and other hazards that present certain safety risks to workers employed at the Company’s manufacturing facilities. The potential exists for accidents involving death or serious injury. The potential liability resulting from any such accident, to the extent not covered by insurance, could cause the Company to incur unexpected cash expenditures, thereby reducing the cash available to operate its business. Such an accident could disrupt operations at any of the Company’s facilities, which could adversely affect its ability to deliver product to its customers on a timely basis and to retain its current business. 14 Table of Contents Flaws in the design or manufacture of the Company’s products could cause future product liability or warranty claims for which it does not have adequate insurance or affect its reputation among customers. The Company’s products are essential components in buildings and other applications where problems in the design or manufacture of its products could result in property damage, personal injury or death. While the Company believes that its liability insurance is adequate to protect it from future product liability and warranty liabilities, its insurance may not cover all liabilities or be available in the future at a cost acceptable to the Company. In addition, if any of the Company’s products prove to be defective, it may be required in the future to participate in a recall involving such products. A successful claim brought against the Company in excess of available insurance coverage, if any, or a requirement to participate in any product recall, could significantly reduce the Company’s profits or negatively affect its reputation with customers. The Company’s credit facility contains restrictions on the Company’s ability to implement its acquisition program. The Company’s credit facility contains certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to enter into acquisitions, including: • the Company must comply with all terms and conditions of the credit facility on a pro forma basis based on the combined operating results of the acquisition target and the Company; • if the Company’s leverage ratio is greater than 2.50x, acquisitions are limited to 15% of the Company’s net worth per transaction; and • the Company is restricted from incurring certain additional indebtedness. The above restrictions may impede the Company’s ability to carry out an active acquisition program, which is an important component of the Company’s future growth strategy. The Company’s failure to comply with the terms and covenants in its credit facility could lead to a default under the terms of those documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate the indebtedness and declare all amounts owed due and payable. Failure to obtain alternative financing created by a potential breach of the lender’s funding commitment could negatively impact the Company’s growth strategy. The current turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There is no assurance that the Company’s lenders will provide any future funding under the credit facility. If the Company’s lenders were unable or unwilling to fulfill their lending commitment, the Company would be required to seek alternative funding sources in order to conduct operations. Alternative funding could result in higher interest rates. However, there can be no assurance that alternative financial resources will be available promptly, on favorable terms or at all. Failure to obtain necessary funding could adversely affect our short-term liquidity and ability to make investment in research and development to fund new product initiatives, continue to upgrade process technology and manufacturing capabilities, and actively seek out potential acquisition candidates and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s corporate governance documents as well as Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, which could decrease the value of the Company’s shares. The Company’s certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company without the consent of its board of directors. These provisions include restrictions on the ability of the Company’s stockholders to remove directors and supermajority voting requirements for stockholders to amend the Company’s organizational documents, a classified board of directors and limitations on action by the Company’s stockholders by written consent. In addition, the Company’s board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between any holder of 15% or more of the Company’s outstanding common stock and the Company. Although the Company believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics and thereby provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with its board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The Company’s expansion plans outside the United States may not succeed. The Company is currently expanding into China. Any expansion to markets outside the United States will present different and successive risks, expenses and difficulties with regard to applying or modifying our business model to different countries and regions of the world. There can be no assurance that any of the Company’s efforts to expand outside the United States will prove successful, that it will not incur operating losses in the future as a result of these efforts or that such efforts will not have a material adverse impact. The Company’s success depends upon its ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance its existing products and services through product development initiatives and technological advances. The Company has continuing programs designed to develop new products and to enhance and improve its products. The Company is expending resources for the development of new products in all aspects of its business. Some of these new products must be developed due to changes in legislative, regulatory or industry requirements or in competitive technologies that render certain of the Company’s products obsolete or less competitive. The successful development of the Company’s products and product enhancements are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including unanticipated delays, access to significant capital, budget overruns, technical problems and other difficulties that could result in the abandonment or substantial change in the design, development and commercialization of these new products. Given the uncertainties inherent with product development and introduction, including lack of market acceptance, the Company cannot provide assurance that any of its product development efforts will be successful on a timely basis or within budget, if at all. Failure to develop new products and product enhancements on a timely basis or within budget could harm the Company’s business and prospects. In addition, the Company may not be able to achieve the technological advances necessary for it to remain competitive. The Company’s goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets may become impaired and result in a charge to income. The Company’s management must use judgment in making estimates of future operating results and appropriate residual values to allocate the purchase price paid for acquisitions to the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets. Future operating results and residual values could reasonably differ from the estimates and could require a provision for impairment in a future period which would result in a charge to income from operations in the year of the impairment with a resulting decrease in the Company’s recorded net worth. 16 Table of Contents The Company may not be able to protect its intellectual property. A significant amount of time, effort and expense is devoted to custom engineering which qualifies the Company’s products for specific customer applications and developing superior, proprietary process technology. The Company relies on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect its proprietary information. Despite the Company’s efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of the Company’s products or otherwise obtain and use its intellectual property. Any patents the Company owns may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of the Company’s pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims it seeks, if at all. If the Company cannot protect its proprietary information against unauthorized use, it may not remain competitive, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company has the ability to issue additional equity securities, which would lead to dilution of its issued and outstanding common stock. The issuance of additional equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities would result in dilution of existing stockholders’ equity interests in the Company. The Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value, in one or more series, which may give other stockholders dividend, conversion, voting, and liquidation rights, among other rights, which may be superior to the rights of holders of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s board of directors has no present intention of issuing any such preferred shares, but reserves the right to do so in the future. In addition, the Company is authorized, by prior stockholder approval, to issue up to 125,000,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share. The Company is authorized to issue, without stockholder approval, securities convertible into either common stock or preferred stock. The Company’s insurance providers may be unable to perform under their obligations. Although the Company believes their insurance providers are creditworthy and that it will collect all amounts owed to them, the failure of these institutions to perform under their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 Table of Contents 