Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be anticipated or projected. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is or may be based. INTRODUCTORY NOTE On November 13, 2012, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a three-for-one split of the Company’s common stock in the form of a 200% stock dividend. The record date of the stock split was December 14, 2012 and the additional shares were distributed January 15, 2013. Treasury shares were treated as shares outstanding in the stock split. All shares and per share amounts in this filing have been adjusted for all periods presented for the stock split. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Lorillard is the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Founded in 1760, Lorillard is the oldest continuously operating tobacco company in the United States. Newport, our flagship premium cigarette brand, is the top selling menthol and second largest selling cigarette brand overall in the United States based on gross units sold in 2012. The Newport brand, which includes both menthol and non-menthol product offerings, accounted for approximately 87.0% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012. In addition to the Newport brand, our product line has four additional brand families marketed under the Kent, True, Maverick, and Old Gold brand names. These five brands include 39 different product offerings which vary in price, taste, flavor, length and packaging. In 2012, we shipped 40.2 billion cigarettes, all of which were sold in the United States and certain U.S. possessions and territories. Lorillard, through its LOEC, Inc. subsidiary, is also a leading electronic cigarette company in the U.S., marketed under the blu eCigs brand following its acquisition of blu eCigs and other assets used in the manufacture, distribution, development, research, marketing, advertising and sale of electronic cigarettes on April 24, 2012. Newport, Kent, True, Maverick, Old Gold and blu eCigs are the registered trademarks of Lorillard and its subsidiaries. We sold our major cigarette trademarks outside of the United States in 1977. We maintain our headquarters and manufacture all of our cigarette products in Greensboro, North Carolina. We produce cigarettes for both the premium and discount segments of the domestic cigarette market. We do not compete in a subcategory of the discount segment that we identify as the deep discount segment. Premium brands are well known, established brands marketed at higher retail prices. Discount brands are generally less 2 Table of Contents well recognized brands marketed at lower retail prices. We define the deep discount subcategory to include brands sold at the lowest retail prices. Deep discount cigarettes are typically manufactured by smaller companies, relative to us and other major U.S. manufacturers, many of which have no, or significantly lower, payment obligations under the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the “MSA”) and the settlements of similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota, collectively the “State Settlement Agreements”. Advertising and Sales Promotion The predominant form of promotion in the industry and for us consists of retail price reduction programs, such as discounting or lowering the price of a pack or carton of cigarettes in the retail store. These programs are developed, implemented and executed by our sales force through merchandising or promotional agreements with retail chain accounts and independent retailers. We focus our retail programs in markets and stores reflecting unique potential for increased menthol cigarette sales. Our direct buying wholesale customers provide us with information as to the quantities of cigarettes shipped to their retail accounts on a weekly basis. This data covers approximately 99% of domestic wholesale units shipped by us and our major competitors, and enables us to analyze, plan and execute retail promotion programs in markets and stores that optimize the most efficient and effective return on our promotional investments. We employ other promotion methods to communicate with our adult consumers as well as with adult smokers of our competitors’ products. These promotional programs include the use of direct marketing communications, retail coupons, relationship marketing and promotional materials intended to be displayed at retail. Relationship marketing entails the use of various communication techniques to directly reach adult consumers in order to establish a relationship with them for the purpose of advertising and promoting a product or products. We use our proprietary database of adult smokers of our brands and our competitors’ brands to deliver targeted communications about a given brand through age-restricted direct mail and internet programs. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, sales promotion costs in any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. Advertising plays a relatively lesser role in our overall marketing strategy for cigarettes. We advertise Newport in a limited number of magazines that meet certain requirements regarding the age and composition of their readership. Newport is our only cigarette brand that receives magazine advertising support. Advertising of cigarettes through television and radio has been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, the participating cigarette manufacturers agreed to severe restrictions on their advertising and promotion activities including, among other things: • prohibiting the targeting of youth in the advertising, promotion or marketing of cigarettes; • banning the use of cartoon characters in all cigarette advertising and promotion; • limiting each cigarette manufacturer to one brand-name event sponsorship during any twelve-month period, which may not include major team sports or events in which the intended audience includes a significant percentage of youth; • banning all outdoor advertising of cigarettes with the exception of small signs at retail establishments that sell tobacco products; • banning cigarette manufacturers from offering or selling apparel and other merchandise that bears a cigarette brand name, subject to specified exceptions; • prohibiting the distribution of free samples of cigarettes except within adult-only facilities; 3 Table of Contents • prohibiting payments for cigarette placement in various media; and • banning gift offers based on the purchase of cigarettes without sufficient proof that the intended gift recipient is an adult. In June 2009, the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the “FSPTCA”) was enacted granting authority over the regulation of certain tobacco products to the FDA, excluding electronic cigarettes. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over certain tobacco products. The FSPTCA also contains other restrictions, some of which may be more stringent than those found in the original 1995 FDA rule, affecting the advertising, marketing and sale of cigarette products. See the section entitled “Legislation and Regulation” below for additional information concerning the marketing and sales provisions of the FSPTCA. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting cigarette advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. We cannot predict the impact of such initiatives on our marketing and sales efforts. We fund a Youth Smoking Prevention Program, which is designed to discourage youth from smoking by promoting parental involvement and assisting parents in discussing the issue of smoking with their children. We are also a founding member of the Coalition for Responsible Tobacco Retailing which through its “We Card” program trains retailers in how to prevent the purchase of cigarettes by underage persons. In addition, we have adopted guidelines established by the National Association of Attorneys General to restrict advertising in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. Electronic cigarettes are generally less regulated than cigarettes. Accordingly, a wider variety of marketing programs are available. The predominant forms of advertising and promotion in the electronic cigarette industry are television, print advertising, sampling events and web based advertising. LOEC requires all purchasers of its electronic cigarettes to be at least 18 years of age. During 2012, the FDA indicated that it intends to regulate electronic cigarettes under the FSPTCA through the issuance of deeming regulations that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of a “tobacco product” under the FSPTCA subject to the FDA’s jurisdiction. As of February 11, 2013, the FDA had not taken such action. Customers and Distribution Our field sales personnel are based throughout the United States, and we maintain field sales offices throughout the United States. Our sales department is divided into regions based on geography and sales territories. We sell our products primarily to wholesale distributors, who in turn service retail outlets, chain store organizations, and government agencies, including the U.S. Armed Forces. Upon completion of the manufacturing process, we ship cigarettes to public distribution warehouse facilities for rapid order fulfillment to wholesalers and other direct buying customers. We retain a portion of our manufactured cigarettes at our Greensboro central distribution center and Greensboro cold-storage facility for future finished goods replenishment. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 500 direct buying customers servicing more than 400,000 retail accounts for our cigarettes. We do not sell cigarettes directly to consumers. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, sales made by us to the McLane Company, Inc. comprised 29%, 28% and 27%, respectively, of our revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of 2012, 2011 or 2010 cigarette revenues. We do not have any written sales agreements with our customers, including the McLane Company, Inc. that provide for any backlog orders. Most of our customers buy cigarettes on a next-day-delivery basis. Customer orders are shipped from public distribution warehouses via third party carriers. We do not ship products directly to retail stores. In 2012, 4 Table of Contents approximately 99% of our customers purchased cigarettes using electronic funds transfer, which provides immediate payment to us. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 400 direct buying customers providing blu eCigs electronic cigarettes to more than 50,000 retail accounts. We also sell electronic cigarettes directly to consumers over the internet. We do not have any written sales agreements with our customers that provide for any backlog orders for electronic cigarettes. Customer orders are shipped primarily from a public distribution warehouse via third party carriers. Raw Materials and Manufacturing In our production of cigarettes, we use domestic and foreign grown burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos, as well as aromatic tobaccos grown primarily in Turkey and other Near Eastern countries. We believe that there is an adequate supply of leaf tobacco of the type and quality we require at competitive prices from a combination of global sources, and that we are not dependent on any one geographic region or country for our requirements. An affiliate of Reynolds American Inc. (“RAI”) manufactures all of our reconstituted tobacco pursuant to our specifications, as set forth in the agreement between us and RAI. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper-like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. We purchase our leaf tobacco through tobacco dealers, which contract with leaf growers. Such purchases are made at prevailing market prices in the country of origin. Due to the varying size and quality of annual crops, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other foreign currencies and other economic factors, tobacco prices have historically fluctuated. We direct these dealers in the purchase of tobacco according to our specifications for quality, grade, yield, particle size, moisture content, and other characteristics. The dealers purchase and process the whole leaf and then dry and package it for shipment to and storage at our Danville, Virginia facility. We have not experienced any difficulty in purchasing our requirement of leaf tobacco. We purchased approximately 31.9%, 24.9% and 27.4% of our leaf tobacco from one dealer, Alliance One International, Inc. (“Alliance One”) in 2012, 2011 and 2010. If Alliance One becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that we can readily obtain high quality leaf tobacco from well-established, alternative industry sources. However, we believe that such high quality leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to Alliance One. We store our tobacco in 29 storage warehouses on our 130-acre Danville, Virginia facility. To protect against loss, amounts of all types and grades of tobacco are stored in separate warehouses. Certain types of tobacco used in our blends must be allowed to mature over time to allow natural chemical changes that enhance certain characteristics affecting taste. Because of these aging requirements, we maintain large quantities of leaf tobacco at all times. We believe our current tobacco inventories are sufficient and adequately balanced for our present and expected production requirements. If necessary, we can typically purchase aged tobacco in the open market to supplement existing inventories. We produce cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing plant, which has a production capacity of approximately 200 million cigarettes per day and approximately 50 billion cigarettes per year. Through various automated systems and sensors, we actively monitor all phases of production to promote quality and compliance with applicable regulations. All raw materials used in the manufacture of our electronic cigarettes, with the exception of the liquid flavorings, are produced by various suppliers located in Asia. The liquid flavorings used in our electronic cigarettes, which have varieties with and without nicotine, are manufactured in the U.S. and exported to Asian based manufacturers. All of our electronic cigarettes are manufactured and assembled in Asia and imported to the US. 5 Table of Contents Research and Development We have an experienced research and development team that continuously evaluates new products and line extensions and assesses new technologies and scientific advancements to be able to respond to marketplace demands and developing regulatory requirements. Our research and development efforts focus primarily on: • developing quality products that appeal to adult consumers; • studying and developing consumer-acceptable products with the potential for reduced exposure to smoke constituents or reduced health risk; • improving the quality and consistency of existing electronic cigarette products; • developing advancements in electronic cigarette technology aimed at improving consumer acceptability and realizing the potential for harm reduction compared to cigarette products; • identifying and investigating, through the use of internal and external resources, suspect constituents of cigarette products or their components to determine the feasibility of reduction or elimination; • maintaining state-of-the-art knowledge about public health and scientific issues related to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes; • developing new, or modifying existing, products and processes to promote quality control and to comply with current and anticipated laws and regulations; and • collaborating and cooperating with public and private scientific institutions and encouraging independent research relating to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes. Tobacco-related research activities include: the analysis of cigarette components, including cigarette paper, filters, tobacco and ingredients, including menthol; analysis of mainstream and sidestream smoke; and modification of cigarette design. We employ advanced scientific equipment in our research efforts, including gas chromatographs, mass spectrographs and liquid chromatographs. We use this equipment to structurally identify and measure the amount of chemical compounds found in cigarette smoke and various tobaccos. These measurements allow us to better understand the relationship between the tobacco, cigarette construction, and the smoke yielded from cigarettes. In addition, advanced biological techniques are developed and used to test the biological impact of tobacco smoke on cells and advance our understanding of potential biomarkers for disease risk. Information Technology We are committed to the use of information technology throughout the organization to provide operating effectiveness, cost reduction and competitive advantages. We believe our system platform provides the appropriate level of information in a timely fashion to effectively manage the business. We utilize proven technologies while also continuously exploring new technologies consistent with our information technology architecture strategy. Our information technology environment is anchored by an SAP enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system designed to meet the processing and analysis needs of our core business operations and financial control requirements. The process control and production methods in our manufacturing operation utilize scanning, radio frequency identification, wireless technologies and software products to monitor and control the manufacturing process. Our primary data center is located at our corporate headquarters and is staffed by an in-house team of experienced information technology professionals. A satellite data center, located at our cigarette manufacturing facility, supports our manufacturing environment. In addition, we have a comprehensive redundancy and disaster recovery plan in place. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately 2,900 full-time employees. As of that date, approximately 1,100 of those employees were represented by labor unions covered by two collective bargaining agreements. 6 Table of Contents Local Union #317T Greensboro of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL-CIO-CLC) represents workers at our Greensboro cigarette manufacturing plant. In August 2011, a new collective bargaining agreement covering this Union was approved, which expires in September 2015. Workers at our Danville, Virginia tobacco storage facility are also represented by Local Union #317T Danville of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL-CIO-CLC). In March 2012, a new collective bargaining agreement covering Local Union #317T of Danville was approved, which expires in April 2016. We have historically had an amicable relationship with the unions representing our employees. We provide a retirement plan, a profit sharing plan and other benefits for our hourly paid employees who are represented by unions. In addition, we provide to our salaried employees a retirement plan, group life, disability and health insurance program and a savings plan. We also maintain an incentive compensation plan for certain salaried employees, and an employee stock purchase plan under which certain full-time employees may purchase shares of Lorillard common stock. Intellectual Property We believe that our trademarks, including brand names, are important to our business. We own the patents, trade secrets, know-how and trademarks, including our brand names and the distinctive packaging and displays, used by us in our business. All of our material trademarks are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Rights in these trademarks in the United States will continue indefinitely as long as we continue to use the trademarks. We consider the blends of tobacco and the flavor formulas used to make our brands to be trade secrets. These trade secrets are generally not the subject of patents, though various manufacturing processes are patented. We sold the international rights to substantially all of our major cigarette brands, including Newport, in 1977. Competition The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brand’s taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA Inc. (“Philip Morris”), a subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (“RJR Tobacco”), a subsidiary of RAI. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. The market for electronic cigarettes is evolving at a very fast pace and is very fragmented, with many smaller companies competing with similar product offerings. In the competition for retail presence, blu eCigs has begun the process of differentiating itself from the competition with unique technology, impactful displays and point of sale materials. The method of distribution for many competing companies is predominately over the internet, with only a small number of competitors currently having a significant presence at retail. Please read the sections entitled “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment” and “—Selected Industry and Domestic Cigarette Retail Market Share Data” beginning on pages 32 and 40, respectively, for additional information. 7 Table of Contents Legislation and Regulation Our business operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the research, development and manufacture of cigarettes; the development of new tobacco products; the publication of health warnings on cigarette packaging and advertising; the marketing and sale of tobacco products; restrictions on smoking in public places; and fire safety standards. From time to time, new legislation and regulations are proposed and reports are published by government sponsored committees and others recommending additional regulation of tobacco products. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proposals, reports and recommendations. If they are enacted or implemented, certain of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition or results of operations in the future. Federal Regulation The Federal Comprehensive Smoking Education Act, which became effective in 1985, requires that cigarette packaging and advertising display one of the following four warning statements, on a rotating basis: (1) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and May Complicate Pregnancy.” (2) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health.” (3) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury, Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight.” (4) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide.” This law also requires that each company that manufactures, packages or imports cigarettes shall annually provide to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a list of the ingredients added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes. This list of ingredients may be submitted in a manner that does not identify the company that uses the ingredients or the brand of cigarettes that contain the ingredients. In addition, bills have been introduced in Congress, including those that would: • prohibit all tobacco advertising and promotion; • authorize the establishment of various anti-smoking education programs; • provide that current federal law should not be construed to relieve any person of liability under common or state law; • permit state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes; • direct the placement of advertising of tobacco products; • provide that cigarette advertising not be deductible as a business expense; • restrict the sale or distribution of cigarettes in retail stores, by mail or over the internet; • impose additional, or increase existing, excise taxes on cigarettes; and • require that cigarettes be manufactured in a manner that will cause them, under certain circumstances, to be self-extinguishing. In June 2009, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was enacted granting the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) authority to regulate tobacco products. As it relates to cigarettes, the legislation: • establishes a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol; 8 Table of Contents • grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; • requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on cigarette packs, cartons, and advertising; • bans the use of descriptors on cigarettes, such as “low tar” and “light”; • bans the distribution of free samples of cigarettes; • requires the disclosure of cigarette ingredients and additives to consumers; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA of all new cigarette products, including substantially equivalent products; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA for all claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; • allows the FDA to review existing products to determine whether these products are substantially equivalent to other products in the market; • allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and • permits inconsistent state regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes and eliminates the existing federal preemption of such regulation. The legislation permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is possible that such additional regulation, including regulation of menthol short of a ban thereof, could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands), increased costs to us, and/or the development of a significant black market for cigarettes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During 2012, the FDA indicated that it intends to regulate electronic cigarettes under the FSPTCA through the issuance of deeming regulations that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of a “tobacco product” under the FSPTCA subject to the FDA’s jurisdiction. As of February 11, 2013, the FDA had not taken such action. We cannot predict the scope of such regulations or the impact they may have on our electronic cigarette business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business in the future. Environmental Tobacco Smoke Various publications and studies by governmental entities have reported that environmental tobacco smoke (“ETS”), also called second-hand smoke, presents health risks. In addition, public health organizations have issued statements on the adverse health effects of ETS, and scientific papers have been published that address the health problems associated with ETS exposure. Various states, cities and municipalities have restricted public smoking in recent years, and these restrictions have been based at least in part on the publications regarding the health risks believed to be associated with ETS exposure. The governmental entities that have published these reports have included the Surgeon General of the United States, first with a report focused on the health risks of ETS in 1986 and again in 2006. The 2006 report, for instance, concluded that there is no risk-free level of exposure to ETS. In 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services listed ETS as a known human carcinogen. In 1993, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency concluded that ETS is a human lung carcinogen in adults and causes respiratory effects in children. The Surgeon General also addressed the health risks of ETS in the 2010 Report of the Surgeon General on “How Tobacco 9 Table of Contents Smoke Causes Disease: The Biology and Behavioral Basis for Smoking-Attributable Disease” (“2010 Surgeon General Report”). Agencies of state governments also have issued publications regarding ETS, including reports by California entities that were published in 1997, 1999 and 2006. In the 2006 study, the California Air Resources Board determined that ETS is a toxic air contaminant. Based on these or other findings, public health concerns regarding ETS have lead and could continue to lead to the imposition of additional restrictions on public smoking, including bans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. State and Local Regulation Many state, local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage, smoking, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in various places such as public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars and on airline flights and in the workplace. This trend has increased significantly since the release of the EPA’s report regarding ETS in 1993. Two states, Massachusetts and Texas, have enacted legislation requiring each manufacturer of cigarettes sold in those states to submit an annual report identifying for each brand sold certain “added constituents,” and providing nicotine yield ratings and other information for certain brands. Neither law allows for the public release of trade secret information. A New York law which became effective in June 2004 requires cigarettes sold in that state to meet a mandated standard for ignition propensity. We developed proprietary technology to comply with the standards and were compliant by the effective date. Since the passage of the New York law, an additional 49 states and the District of Columbia have passed similar laws utilizing the same technical standards. The effective dates of these laws range from May 2006 to January 2011. Beginning November 1, 2009, all of our cigarettes were manufactured using this technology. Other similar laws and regulations have been enacted or considered by other state and local governments and may include electronic cigarettes as well as cigarettes. We cannot predict the impact which these regulations may have on our business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. Excise Taxes and Assessments Cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes in the United States and, in general, such taxes have been increasing. Effective April 1, 2009, the federal excise tax on cigarettes increased to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes (or $1.0066 per pack of 20 cigarettes) from $19.50 per thousand cigarettes (or $0.39 per pack of 20 cigarettes). State excise taxes, which are levied upon and paid by the distributors, are also in effect in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and many municipalities. During 2012 state excise tax increases on cigarette sales were implemented in two states ranging from $0.04 per pack to $1.00 per pack. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, the combined state and municipal taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack of cigarettes. A federal law enacted in October 2004 repealed the federal supply management program for tobacco growers and compensated tobacco quota holders and growers with payments to be funded by an assessment on tobacco manufacturers and importers. Cigarette manufacturers and importers are responsible for paying 91.6% of a $10.14 billion payment to tobacco quota holders and growers over a ten-year period which will expire in 2014. The law provides that payments will be based on shipments for domestic consumption. Electronic cigarettes are generally not subject to federal, state and local excise taxes. However, one state has imposed an excise tax on electronic cigarettes and certain other jurisdictions are considering imposing excise taxes and other restrictions on electronic cigarettes. 10 Table of Contents Separation Agreement with Loews Corporation Prior to June 10, 2008, Lorillard, Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Loews Corporation (“Loews”), a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). Our results of operations and financial condition were included as a separate reporting segment in Loews’s financial statements and filings with the SEC. On June 10, 2008, we began operating as an independent, publicly traded company pursuant to our separation from Loews (the “Separation”). In connection with the Separation, we entered into an agreement with Loews on May 7, 2008 to provide for the separation of our business from Loews as well as providing for indemnification and allocation of taxes between the parties (the “Separation Agreement”). The Separation Agreement sets forth the relationship between Lorillard and Loews following the Separation, including provisions relating to indemnification and tax allocation between the parties. Indemnification Provisions We agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against all costs and expenses arising out of third party claims (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees, interest, penalties and costs of investigation or preparation for defense), judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands, assessments and amounts paid in settlement based on, arising out of or resulting from: • the ownership or the operation of our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to any smoking and health claims and litigation); • certain tax matters, as discussed below; • any other activities in which we may engage; • any action or omission by us (or any successor entity) that causes the Separation to become taxable to Loews; • any breach by us of the Separation Agreement; • any other acts or omissions by us arising out of the performance of our obligations under the Separation Agreement; • misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, other than misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement; and • any taxes and related losses resulting from the receipt of any such indemnity payment. Our indemnification obligations, including the tax indemnification obligations described below, are binding on our successors. We are not permitted to merge, consolidate, transfer or convey all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor expressly agrees in writing to be bound by these indemnification obligations. Any equity security or equity interest of Lorillard Licensing Company, LLC (“Lorillard Licensing”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and owner of our trademarks, or any interest in the intellectual property owned by Lorillard Licensing, is deemed a “significant portion” for purposes of the foregoing. We also agreed to release Loews and its shareholders, officers, directors and employees from any liability owed by any of them to us with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. The Separation Agreement also provides that Loews will indemnify us and our officers, directors, employees and agents against losses, including but not limited to, litigation matters, and other claims, based on, arising out of or resulting from: • any activity that Loews and its subsidiaries (other than us) engage in; • any breach by Loews of the Separation Agreement; 11 Table of Contents • any other acts or omissions by Loews arising out of the performance of its obligations under the Separation Agreement; and • misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, but only with respect to misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement. Loews agreed to release us and all of our directors, officers and employees from any liability owed by any of us to Loews with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. Tax Allocation Provisions Following the Separation, we are no longer included in Loews’s consolidated group for federal income tax purposes. In connection with the Separation, the Separation Agreement provides certain tax allocation arrangements, pursuant to which we will indemnify Loews for tax liabilities that are allocated to us for taxable periods ending on or before the Separation date. The amount of federal income taxes allocated to us for such periods is generally equal to the federal income taxes that would have been payable by us during such periods if we had filed separate consolidated returns. In addition, with respect to periods in which we were included in Loews’s consolidated group, Loews will indemnify us with respect to the tax liability of the members of the Loews consolidated group other than us. After the Separation, we have the right to be notified of and participate in tax matters for which we are financially responsible under the terms of the Separation Agreement, although Loews will generally control such matters. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax-free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loews’s fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential successor obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. The Separation Agreement further provides for cooperation between us and Loews with respect to additional tax matters, including the exchange of information and the retention of records which may affect the income tax liability of the parties to the Separation Agreement. Available Information We are listed on the NYSE under the symbol “LO.” Our principal offices are located at 714 Green Valley Road, Greensboro, North Carolina 27408. Our telephone number is (336) 335-7000. Our corporate website is located at www.lorillard.com, and our filings pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website under the tabs “Investor Relations—Financial Reporting—SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after such filings are electronically filed with the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and charters for the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our website under the tabs, “Investor Relations—Governance” and printed copies are available upon request. The information contained on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. Investors may also read and copy any materials that we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Readers may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains our reports. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS FDA regulation of menthol in cigarettes and concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks could adversely affect our business. Some plaintiffs in our litigation and constituencies, including the FDA and other public health agencies, have claimed or expressed concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks and may impact public health more than non-mentholated cigarettes, including concerns that mentholated cigarettes may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit, and may seek restrictions or a ban on the production and sale of mentholated cigarettes. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Following the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the “Act”) in June 2009, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the “TPSAC”) to evaluate, among other things, “the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, including such use among children, African-Americans, Hispanics, and other racial and ethnic minorities.” In addition, the Act permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. The TPSAC or the Menthol Report Subcommittee held meetings on March 30-31, 2010, July 15-16, 2010, September 27, 2010, October 7, 2010, November 18, 2010, January 10-11, 2011, February 10-11, 2011, March 2, 2011, March 17-18, 2011 and July 21, 2011 to consider the issues surrounding the use of menthol in cigarettes. At the March 18, 2011 meeting, TPSAC presented its report and recommendations on menthol. The report’s findings included that menthol likely increases experimentation and regular smoking, menthol likely increases the likelihood and degree of addiction for youth smokers, non-white menthol smokers (particularly African-Americans) are less likely to quit smoking and are less responsive to certain cessation medications, and that consumers continue to believe that smoking menthol cigarettes is less harmful than smoking nonmenthol cigarettes as a result of the cigarette industry’s historical marketing. TPSAC’s overall recommendation to the FDA was that “[r]emoval of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health in the United States.” At the July 21, 2011 meeting, TPSAC considered revisions to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In the June 2011 update, the FDA stated that “[e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health ” The FDA stated that it would submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011. On January 26, 2012, the FDA provided a second progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its January 2012 update, the FDA stated that “FDA submitted its report to external scientists for peer review, and the agency is revising its report based on their feedback.” FDA stated its intent to make the final report, along with the peer review scientists’ feedback and the agency’s response to the feedback, available for public comment in the Federal Register. The FDA did not provide a date for releasing the final report. The FDA also indicated that it would consider any public comments to the final report, which “may provide additional evidence or emerging data.” Based on those comments, together with the agency’s report, the TPSAC report, the industry’s perspective report and prior public comments, the FDA stated that it will consider the collective evidence and “possible actions related to the public health impact of menthol in cigarettes.” If the FDA determines that regulation of menthol is warranted, the FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrictions on the use of menthol in cigarettes. Since we are the leading manufacturer of mentholated cigarettes in the United States, we could face increased exposure to tobacco-related litigation as a result of such allegations. Even if such claims are unsubstantiated, increased concerns about the health impact of mentholated cigarettes could materially adversely affect our sales, including sales of Newport. A ban or limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes by the FDA would materially adversely affect our business. 13 Table of Contents The regulation of cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may materially adversely affect our business. In June 2009, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was enacted granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. As it relates to cigarettes, the legislation: • establishes a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol; • grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; • requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on cigarette packs, cartons and advertising; • bans the use of descriptors on cigarettes, such as “low tar” and “light”; • requires the disclosure of cigarette ingredients and additives to consumers; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA of all new cigarette products, including substantially equivalent products; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; • allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and • permits possible inconsistent state and local regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes and eliminates the existing federal preemption of such regulation. We believe that such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, under the Act, we must file a report with the FDA substantiating that any cigarettes introduced or modified after February 15, 2007 are “substantially equivalent” to cigarettes on the market before that date to enable the agency to determine whether the new or modified products are “substantially equivalent” to specific predicate products already being sold. For any products introduced or modified between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011, initial reports were required to be filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. The FDA announced that a product introduced or modified before March 22, 2011 may remain on the market pending the FDA’s review, provided a “substantially equivalent” report was filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. We believe, based on the limited guidance issued by the FDA to date, that we were required to file, and have filed, reports for all of our cigarettes on or before March 22, 2011 since modifications had been made to our products since 2007. While all of our cigarettes may remain on the market pending the FDA’s review, they are subject to removal should the FDA determine any are not “substantially equivalent.” In addition, products introduced on or after March 22, 2011 require pre-market approval by the FDA which may be subject to similar or more restrictive procedures. One component of our strategic plan is the introduction of new cigarette products in adjacent market segments, in which we do not have a significant presence. We have submitted a number of requests for approval of substantially equivalent new products with the FDA. Although we believe that the statutory language of the FSPTCA suggests the pre-market approval process should take 90 days for substantially equivalent new products, the FDA has not approved any substantially equivalent new product applications by us or anyone else in the industry as of February 11, 2013. We believe our ability to execute our strategic plan has been negatively impacted by the delay in the FDA’s new product approval process. 14 Table of Contents As of February 11, 2013, Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 7,203 tobacco-related lawsuits, including approximately 665 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant. These cases, which are extremely costly to defend, could result in substantial judgments against Lorillard Tobacco and/or Lorillard, Inc. Numerous legal actions, proceedings and claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes are pending against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., and it is likely that similar claims will continue to be filed for the foreseeable future. In addition, several cases have been filed against Lorillard Tobacco and other tobacco companies challenging certain provisions of the MSA among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions, and state statutes promulgated to carry out and enforce the MSA. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of dollars, are specifically pleaded in a number of cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. It is possible that the outcome of these cases, individually or in the aggregate, could result in bankruptcy. It is also possible that Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. may be unable to post a surety bond in an amount sufficient to stay execution of a judgment in jurisdictions that require such bond pending an appeal on the merits of the case. Even if Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are successful in defending some or all of these actions, these types of cases are very expensive to defend. A material increase in the number of pending claims could significantly increase defense costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, adverse decisions in litigations against other tobacco companies could have an adverse impact on the industry, including us. Plaintiffs have been awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case. In December 2010, a Massachusetts jury awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case, Evans v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts). In September 2011, the court reduced the compensatory damages awarded to the estate of a deceased smoker to $25 million and reduced the award to the deceased smoker’s son to $10 million. The court declined to reduce the jury’s award of $81 million in punitive damages. In September 2011, the court entered a judgment that reflected the jury’s damages awards and the court’s reductions following trial. The judgment awarded plaintiffs interest on each of the three damages awards at the rate of 12% per year from the date the case was filed in 2004. Interest on the three awards will continue to accrue until either the judgment is paid or is vacated on appeal. The judgment permitted plaintiff’s counsel to request an award of attorneys’ fees and costs. In November 2011, the court granted in part plaintiff’s counsel’s application for attorneys’ fees and costs and has awarded approximately $2.4 million in fees and approximately $225,000 in costs. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the amounts of the verdicts, as reduced by the trial court, the awards of interest, and the awards of attorneys’ fees and costs. Lorillard Tobacco has noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Massachusetts Appeals Court. In March 2012, plaintiff’s application for direct appellate review was granted, transferring the appeal to the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court. The parties’ arguments in this appeal were heard in December 2012. It is possible that the verdict in this case could lead to additional litigation. The Florida Supreme Court’s ruling in Engle has resulted in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The case of Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994) was certified as a class action on behalf of Florida residents, and survivors of Florida residents, who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction to smoking. The case was tried between 1998 and 2000 in a multi-phase trial that resulted in verdicts in favor of the class. In 2006, the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among other things, determined that the case could not proceed further as a class action. In February 2008, the trial court entered an order on remand from the Florida Supreme Court that formally decertified the class. 15 Table of Contents The 2006 ruling by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle also permitted members of the Engle class to file individual claims, including claims for punitive damages. The Florida Supreme Court held that these individual plaintiffs are entitled to rely on a number of the jury’s findings in favor of the plaintiffs in the first phase of the Engle trial. These findings included that smoking cigarettes causes a number of diseases; that cigarettes are addictive or dependence-producing; and that the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., were negligent, breached express and implied warranties, placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, and concealed or conspired to conceal the risks of smoking. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 4,565 cases pending in various state and federal courts in Florida that were filed by members of the Engle class (the “Engle Progeny Cases”), including 662 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant. As of February 11, 2013, trial was underway in one Engle Progeny case in which Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant: the case of Evers v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, Hillsborough County, Florida). Lorillard, Inc. is not a defendant in this trial. As of February 11, 2013, Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are defendants in Engle Progeny Cases that have been placed on courts’ 2013 trial calendars or in which specific trial dates have been set. Trial schedules are subject to change and it is not possible to predict how many of the Engle Progeny Cases pending against Lorillard Tobacco or Lorillard, Inc. will be tried in 2013. It also is not possible to predict whether some courts will implement procedures that consolidate multiple Engle Progeny Cases for trial. Trials of some of the Engle Progeny Cases have resulted in verdicts that have awarded damages from cigarette manufacturers, including us. As of February 11, 2013, plaintiffs in nine Engle Progeny Cases were awarded compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In three of the nine cases, plaintiffs were awarded punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In one of the cases, the court awarded damages to the plaintiff from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, following trial. Lorillard, Inc. was not a defendant in any of these nine cases. The nine cases are listed below in the order in which the verdicts were returned: • In Mrozek v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiffs a total of $6 million in compensatory damages and $11.3 million in punitive damages. The jury apportioned 35% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker and 65% to Lorillard Tobacco. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jury’s verdict and awarded plaintiff $3,900,588 in compensatory damages and $11,300,000 in punitive damages plus 6% annual interest. A motion filed by Lorillard Tobacco to disqualify the trial judge based on comments he made in another Engle Progeny trial was denied in July 2012 and a petition filed by Lorillard Tobacco requesting that the Florida First District Court of Appeal review that decision was denied in January 2013. In December 2012, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment awarding compensatory and punitive damages. Lorillard Tobacco has filed a motion for rehearing of the appellate court opinion. The appellate court provisionally granted plaintiff’s motion for appellate attorneys’ fees, ruling that the trial court is authorized to award appellate fees if the trial court determines entitlement to attorneys’ fees. As of February 11, 2013, the trial court had not ruled on plaintiff’s motion for costs and attorneys’ fees. • In Tullo v. R.J. Reynolds, et al. (Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $4.5 million in compensatory damages. The jury assessed 45% of the fault to the smoker, 5% to Lorillard Tobacco and 50% to other defendants. The jury did not award punitive damages to the plaintiff. The court entered a final judgment that awarded plaintiff $225,000 in compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. Defendants noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. • In Sulcer v. Lorillard Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Escambia County, Florida), the jury awarded $225,000 in compensatory damages to the plaintiff and it assessed 95% of the fault for the 16 Table of Contents smoker’s injuries to the smoker with 5% allocated to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury returned a verdict for Lorillard Tobacco as to whether plaintiff is entitled to punitive damages. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the jury’s determination of the parties’ fault and awarded plaintiff $11,250 in compensatory damages. Lorillard Tobacco paid approximately $246,000 to resolve the damages verdict, costs and fees. Following this payment, Sulcer was concluded. • In Jewett v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded the estate of the decedent $692,981 in compensatory damages and awarded the plaintiff $400,000 for loss of companionship. The jury assessed 70% of the responsibility for the decedent’s injuries to the decedent, 20% to R.J. Reynolds and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury determined that no punitive damages were warranted. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jury’s verdict and awarded plaintiff a total of $109,298 from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. In June 2012, an agreement was reached between the parties as to the amount of costs and attorneys’ fees incurred and plaintiff’s motion for costs and attorneys’ fees was withdrawn. In November 2012, the Florida First District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment awarding compensatory damages and ordered the case returned to the trial court for a new trial. In January 2013, the appellate court denied a motion filed by the plaintiff for rehearing of the decision reversing the judgment. • In Weingart v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury determined that the decedent did not sustain any compensatory damages from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, and it returned a verdict for the defendants that punitive damages were not warranted. The jury assessed 91% of the fault for the decedent’s injuries to the decedent, 3% to Lorillard Tobacco and 3% to each of the other two defendants. Following trial, the court granted in part a motion by the plaintiff to award damages, and it tentatively awarded plaintiff $150,000 in compensatory damages. The court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations to the court’s award of compensatory damages. The final judgment awarded plaintiff $4,500 from Lorillard Tobacco. Defendants have noticed an appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal from the order that awarded compensatory damages to the plaintiff and have amended their notice of appeal to address the final judgment. In March 2012, the court entered a judgment against the defendants for costs with Lorillard Tobacco’s share amounting to $43,081 plus 4.75% annual interest. Defendants have noticed an appeal from this cost judgment. • In Sury v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al., (Circuit Court, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff $1,000,000 in compensatory damages and assessed 60% of the responsibility for the decedent’s injuries to the decedent, 20% to Lorillard Tobacco and 20% to R.J. Reynolds. The jury returned a verdict for the defendants regarding whether punitive damages were warranted. In March 2012, the court entered a final judgment against defendants in the amount of $1,000,000 plus 4.75% annual interest, declining to apply the jury’s comparative fault findings to causes of action alleging intentional conduct. Defendants have noticed an appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal from the final judgment that awarded compensatory damages to the plaintiff. In December 2012, Lorillard Tobacco reached an agreement with the plaintiff to resolve the trial costs and fees, should the judgment be upheld on appeal. • In Alexander v. Lorillard Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Miami-Dade County, Florida) the jury awarded plaintiff $20,000,000 in compensatory damages and $25,000,000 in punitive damages. Lorillard Tobacco is the only defendant in this case. The jury apportioned 20% of the fault for the smoker's injuries to the smoker and 80% to Lorillard Tobacco. In March 2012, the court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determination to the court’s award of compensatory damages, awarding the plaintiff $16,000,000 in compensatory damages and $25,000,000 in punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In May 2012, the court granted a motion by Lorillard Tobacco to lower the amount of compensatory damages and reduced the amount awarded to $10,000,000 from Lorillard Tobacco. Other post-trial motions challenging the verdict were denied. The court entered an amended final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determination to the court’s award of compensatory damages, awarding the plaintiff $8,000,000 in 17 Table of Contents compensatory damages and $25,000,000 in punitive damages, plus the statutory rate of interest, should the judgment be upheld on appeal. Lorillard Tobacco has noticed an appeal from the amended final judgment to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal. Plaintiff filed a motion for attorneys’ fees and costs. In September 2012, an agreement was reached between the parties as to the amount of costs and attorneys’ fees incurred. • In Calloway v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff and a daughter of the decedent a total of $20,500,000 in compensatory damages. The jury apportioned 20.5% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 27% to R.J. Reynolds, 25% to Philip Morris, 18% to Lorillard Tobacco, and 9.5% to Liggett. The jury awarded $12,600,000 in punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco and $42,250,000 from the other defendants, for a total punitive damages award of $54,850,000. In August 2012, the court granted a post-trial motion by the defendants and lowered the compensatory damages award to $16,100,000. The court also ruled that the jury’s finding on the plaintiff’s percentage of comparative fault would not be applied to reduce the compensatory damage award because the jury found in favor of the plaintiff on her claims alleging intentional conduct. In August 2012, the court entered final judgment against defendants in the amount of $16,100,000 in compensatory damages and $54,850,000 in punitive damages, plus the statutory rate of interest, which is currently 4.75%. Lorillard Tobacco is liable for $12,600,000 of the total punitive damages award. The final judgment also granted plaintiff’s application for costs and attorneys’ fees, but as of February 11, 2013, the trial court had not awarded an amount. Defendants have noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. • In Evers v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, Hillsborough County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff and the estate of the decedent a total of $3,230,000 in compensatory damages. The jury apportioned 31% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 60% to R.J. Reynolds and 9% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury found that punitive damages against Lorillard Tobacco were not warranted. The jury determined that punitive damages were warranted against R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. As of February 11, 2013, the trial had not proceeded to a second phase to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. As of February 11, 2013, verdicts have been returned in 71 Engle Progeny Cases in which neither Lorillard Tobacco nor Lorillard, Inc. were defendants since the Florida Supreme Court issued its 2006 ruling. Juries awarded compensatory damages and punitive damages in 24 of these trials. The punitive damages awards have totaled approximately $625 million and have ranged from $20,000 to $244 million. In 20 of the trials, juries awarded only compensatory damages. In the 27 other trials, juries found in favor of the defendants. In some of the trials decided in the defendants’ favor, plaintiffs have filed motions challenging the verdicts. It is not possible to predict the final outcome of this litigation. Various intermediate state and federal Florida appellate courts have issued rulings that address the scope of the preclusive effect of the findings from the first phase of the Engle trial, including whether those findings relieve plaintiffs from the burden of proving certain legal elements of their claims. In July 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit reversed the decision of the trial court in the Bernice Brown case, finding that it was premature to address the extent of any preclusive effect of the Engle Phase I findings until the scope of the factual issues decided in Engle Phase I was determined by the trial court. In December 2010, in the Martin case, the Florida First District Court of Appeal disagreed with the Bernice Brown ruling and found that the trial court correctly construed the Florida Supreme Court’s 2006 Engle decision and that it properly instructed the jury on the preclusive effect of certain of the Engle jury’s findings. In September 2011, in the Jimmie Lee Brown case, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal had a different interpretation of the effect of the 2006 Engle decision on plaintiff’s claims than both the Bernice Brown and Martin courts. In December 2011, the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, in the Waggoner case, found that the Florida Supreme Court’s 2006 Engle decision to give the Engle Phase I findings preclusive effect, in conjunction with the Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown cases, was a constitutionally permissible application of Florida law. Since the 18 Table of Contents Martin and Jimmie Lee Brown decisions, 15 other verdicts awarding damages to plaintiffs have been affirmed in intermediate state Florida appellate courts. The Florida Supreme Court has granted review in one of those cases, the Douglas case, to address the issue of whether a tobacco manufacturer’s due process rights are violated by relying upon the Engle Phase I findings. The Florida Supreme Court heard argument in September 2012. The due process issue is also currently on appeal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in the Duke and Walker cases. The Duke appeal has been stayed pending the Florida Supreme Court’s decision on Douglas. A joint motion to consolidate the Duke and Walker appeals and suspend any further activity on those appeals until after the Florida Supreme court’s decision on Douglas is also pending. In connection with the Engle Progeny Cases, Lorillard and various other tobacco manufacturing defendants face various legal issues that could materially affect the outcome of the Engle cases. These legal issues include, but are not limited to, the application of the statute of limitations and statute of repose, the ability of an Engle plaintiff to pursue a claim against defendants that did not manufacture or market the cigarettes plaintiff smoked, the constitutionality of a cap on the amount of a bond necessary to obtain an automatic stay of a post-trial judgment, and whether a plaintiff’s representative may continue an existing lawsuit or file a new lawsuit after that the original plaintiff has died. Various intermediate Florida appellate courts and Florida Federal Courts have issued rulings on these issues. The judgment entered in the federal government’s reimbursement case, while not final in all respects, could restrict or limit our defenses in other litigation. In August 2006, a final judgment and remedial order was entered in United States of America v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999). The court based its final judgment and remedial order on the government’s only remaining claims, which were based on the defendants’ alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”). Lorillard, Inc. is not a party to this matter, but Lorillard Tobacco is one of the defendants in the case. Although the verdict did not award monetary damages to the plaintiff, the final judgment and remedial order imposed a number of requirements on the defendants. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, the publishing of corrective statements by defendants related to the health effects of smoking. In 2009, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals upheld substantially all of the District Court’s final judgment and remedial order. In June 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the parties’ petitions seeking review of the case. The case has been returned to the U.S. District Court, District of Columbia for implementation of the Court of Appeals’ directions in its 2009 ruling and for entry of an amended final judgment. As of February 11, 2013, the trial court had not entered the amended final judgment. The 2006 final judgment and remedial order made many adverse findings regarding the conduct of the defendants. It is possible that the final opinion, final judgment and remedial order entered by the court could form the basis of allegations by the plaintiffs in other matters, or of additional judicial findings by other courts against cigarette manufacturers. It is possible that other courts could apply the findings in the United States of America case to restrict or otherwise limit our defenses in other litigation. A ruling by the United States Supreme Court could limit the ability of cigarette manufacturers to contend that certain claims asserted against them in product liability litigation are barred. The Supreme Court’s decision also could encourage litigation involving cigarettes labeled as “lights” or “low tar.” In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision that neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade Commission’s regulation of cigarettes’ tar and nicotine disclosures preempts (or bars) some of plaintiffs’ claims. The decision also more broadly addresses the scope of preemption based on the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, and could significantly limit cigarette manufacturers’ arguments that certain of plaintiffs’ other claims in smoking and health litigation, including claims based on the alleged concealment of information with respect to the hazards of smoking, are preempted. 19 Table of Contents In addition, the Supreme Court’s ruling could encourage litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us, regarding the sale of cigarettes labeled as “lights” or “low tar,” and it may limit cigarette manufacturers’ ability to defend such claims. The Supreme Court issued this ruling in a purported “lights” class action, Good v. Altria Group, Inc. We were not a defendant in Good. The U.S. Surgeon General has issued reports regarding the risks of cigarette smoking to non-smokers that could result in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, additional restrictions placed on the use of cigarettes, and additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. In a report entitled “The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General, 2006,” the U.S. Surgeon General summarized conclusions from previous Surgeon General’s reports concerning the health risks to non-smokers from exposure to ETS, also called second-hand smoke. According to this report, scientific evidence supported six major conclusions: • Second-hand smoke causes premature death and disease in children and in adults who do not smoke. • Children exposed to second-hand smoke are at an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory infections and ear problems. • Exposure of adults to second-hand smoke has immediate adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and causes heart disease and lung cancer. • The scientific evidence indicates that there is no risk-free level of exposure to second-hand smoke. • Many millions of Americans, both children and adults, are exposed to second-hand smoke in their homes and workplaces. • Eliminating smoking in indoor spaces fully protects non-smokers from exposure to second-hand smoke. Separating smokers from non-smokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings cannot eliminate exposures of non-smokers to second-hand smoke. The Surgeon General also addressed the health risks to non-smokers from exposure to ETS in the 2010 Surgeon General Report. These reports could form the basis of additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The reports have been and in the future could be used to support litigation against us or other cigarette manufacturers. It also is possible that the Surgeon General’s report could result in additional restrictions placed on cigarette smoking or in additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. It is possible that such additional restrictions or regulations could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States, including sales of our brands. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements which will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and operating income in future periods. In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the “Original Participating Manufacturers”) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the “Initial State Settlements” and, together with the MSA, are referred to as the “State Settlement Agreements).” Under the State Settlement Agreements, we paid $1.348 billion in 2012 and estimate that we will pay between $1.350 billion and $1.400 billion in 2013, primarily based on 2012 estimated industry volume. Annual payments under the State Settlement Agreements are required to be paid in perpetuity and are based, among other things, on our domestic market share and unit volume of domestic shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding the year in which payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. 20 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter 2011, RAI, the parent of RJR Tobacco, announced a change to a mark-to-market pension accounting method. Such method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits results in the recognition of actuarial gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets or benefit obligations in the year it is incurred rather than amortized over the average future service period of the active employees in such plans. Amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements are impacted by a number of factors, including industry volume, market share and industry operating profits. As a result of the change to mark-to-market pension accounting announced by RAI, the industry operating profits as defined in the State Settlement Agreements may be impacted positively or negatively in any given year. For example, in 2012 RAI’s mark-to-market pension adjustment resulted in a $8 million reduction in our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements. It is possible that our State Settlement Agreement obligations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected by RAI’s mark-to-market adjustments in the future. We are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of certain material pending litigation. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities surrounding pending litigation, and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or its financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. We may not be able to develop, produce or commercialize competitive new products and technologies required by regulatory changes or changes in consumer preferences. Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely to require us to introduce new products or make substantial changes to existing products. For example, all 50 states and the District of Columbia require cigarette manufacturers to reduce the ignition propensity of their products. We believe that there may be increasing pressure from public health authorities to develop a conventional cigarette, an alternative cigarette or an alternative tobacco product that provides a demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. Certain of the other major cigarette makers have already developed and marketed alternative cigarette products. We may not be able to develop a reduced risk or reduced exposure product that the FDA allows to be marketed or is acceptable to consumers. In addition, the costs associated with developing any such new products and technologies could be substantial. We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors’ introduction of low-priced products or innovative products, increased competitive discounting and other promotional activity, higher excise taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate cigarette products. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco. We also compete against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. If our major 21 Table of Contents competitors were to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, we could respond by increasing price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. The market for electronic cigarettes is evolving at a very fast pace and is very fragmented, and we compete with many smaller companies with similar product offerings. The method of distribution for many competing companies is predominately over the internet, with only a small number of competitors currently having a significant presence at retail. We are subject to important limitations on advertising and marketing cigarettes that could harm our competitive position. Television and radio advertisements of cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, we generally cannot use billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of concerts, non-tobacco merchandise bearing Lorillard’s brand names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In addition, the MSA prohibits the targeting of youth in advertising, promotion or marketing of cigarettes. Accordingly, we have determined not to advertise our cigarettes in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. In June 2009, the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was enacted granting authority over the regulation of cigarettes to the FDA. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over cigarettes. The FSPTCA contains other restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sale of cigarette products more stringent than those found in the original FDA rule. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting tobacco advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. Additional restrictions may be imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations may make it difficult to maintain the value of an existing brand if sales or market share decline for any reason. Moreover, these limitations significantly impair the ability of cigarette manufacturers, including us, to launch new premium brands. The potential regulation of electronic cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may materially adversely affect our electronic cigarette business. During 2012, the FDA indicated that it intends to regulate electronic cigarettes under the FSPTCA through the issuance of deeming regulations that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of a “tobacco product” under the FSPTCA subject to the FDA’s jurisdiction. As of February 11, 2013, the FDA had not taken such action. The application of the FSPTCA to electronic cigarettes could impose, among other things, restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sale of electronic cigarettes, the use of certain flavorings and introducing new products. See “The regulation of cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may materially adversely affect our business” above for additional information on the FSPTCA restrictions applicable to cigarettes. We cannot predict the scope of such regulations or the impact they may have on our electronic cigarette business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business in the future. Changes in laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the regulation of our business by the FDA, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by new or future legal requirements imposed by legislative or regulatory initiatives, including but not limited to those relating to health care reform, climate change and environmental matters. For example, the health care reform legislation, which was signed into law in March 2010, resulted in the repeal of $2 million of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for our retiree drug benefits and could impact our accounting for retiree medical benefits, employer-sponsored medical plans and related matters in future periods. However, the extent of that impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are promulgated and additional interpretations of the health care law are available. New legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent such requirements increase 22 Table of Contents the prices of goods and services because of increased costs or reduced availability. We cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and/or whether any changes in such laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales of cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes. The federal excise tax on cigarettes was last increased on April 1, 2009 from $0.39 per pack to $1.0066 per pack to finance health insurance for children. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2012, combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $5.85 per pack of cigarettes. Various states and localities have raised the excise tax on cigarettes substantially in recent years. During 2012, state excise tax increases on cigarette sales were implemented in two states ranging from $0.04 per pack to $1.00 per pack. It is our expectation that several states will propose further increases in 2013 and in subsequent years. We believe that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. In addition, we believe that the 2009 increase in the federal excise tax, as well as possible future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, compounded by poor economic conditions, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward lower priced discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. We are dependent on the domestic cigarette business, which we expect to continue to contract. Although we conduct business in Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, our cigarette business in the 50 states of the United States (the “domestic cigarette market”) is currently our only significant business and has generally been contracting. We do not have foreign cigarette sales that could offset these effects, as we sold the international rights to substantially all of our cigarette brands, including Newport, in 1977. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, industry-wide domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound annual rate of approximately 3.7% during the period 2002 through 2012. Industry-wide domestic cigarette shipments decreased by an estimated 2.3% for 2012 compared to 2011, 3.5% for 2011 compared to 2010, 3.8% for 2010 compared to 2009 and 8.6% for 2009 compared to 2008. We expect the domestic cigarette market to continue to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We derive most of our revenue from one brand. Our largest selling brand, Newport, accounted for approximately 87.0% of our consolidated net sales for 2012. Our principal strategic plan revolves around the marketing and sales promotion in support of the Newport brand. We cannot ensure that we will continue to successfully implement our strategic plan with respect to Newport or that implementation of our strategic plan will result in the maintenance, growth or profitability of the Newport brand. The use of significant amounts of promotion expenses and sales incentives in response to competitive actions and market price sensitivity may have a material adverse impact on our business. Since 1998, the cigarette market has been increasingly price competitive due to the impact of, among other things, higher state and local excise taxes and the market share of deep discount brands. In response to these and other competitor actions and pricing pressures, we have engaged in the significant use of promotional expenses and sales incentives. The cost of these measures could have a material adverse impact on our business. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, unit sales volume and sales promotion costs in any period are not necessarily indicative of sales and costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. We rely on a limited number of key executives and may continue to experience difficulty in attracting and hiring qualified new personnel in some areas of our business. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business. As a tobacco company, we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified executives and other personnel in some areas of our business. This difficulty is primarily attributable to the health and social issues associated with the tobacco 23 Table of Contents industry. The loss of services of any key personnel or our inability to attract and hire personnel with requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products, enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products or manage our business effectively. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Increased restrictions on smoking in public places could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. In recent years, states and many local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict, or discourage smoking; smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars; and smoking on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are currently under consideration and may be enacted by state and local governments in the future. Although we have no empirical evidence of the effect of such restrictions, we believe that restrictions on smoking in public and other places may lead to a decrease in the number of people who smoke or a decrease in the number of cigarettes smoked by smokers. Increased restrictions on smoking in public and other places may have caused a decrease, and may continue to cause a decrease in the volume of cigarettes that would otherwise be sold by us absent such restrictions, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a single manufacturing facility for the production of our cigarettes. We produce all of our traditional cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing facility. If our manufacturing plant is damaged, destroyed or incapacitated or we are otherwise unable to operate our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to produce cigarettes and may be unable to meet customer demand which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of our leaf tobacco and reconstituted tobacco. We purchased approximately 31.9%, 24.9% and 27.4% of our leaf tobacco through one supplier in 2012, 2011 and 2010, Alliance One International, Inc. (“Alliance One”). If Alliance One becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to Alliance One, which could have a material adverse effect on our future profits. In addition, we purchase all of our reconstituted tobacco from one supplier, which is an affiliate of RAI, one of our major competitors. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper-like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. If RAI becomes unwilling or unable to supply us and we are unable to find an alternative supplier on a timely basis, our operations could be disrupted resulting in lower production levels and reduced sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. The availability of counterfeit cigarettes could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. Sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States, including counterfeits of our Newport brand, could adversely impact sales by the manufacturers of the brands that are counterfeited and potentially damage the value and reputation of those brands. Additionally, smokers who mistake counterfeit cigarettes for our cigarettes may attribute quality and taste deficiencies in the counterfeit product to our brands and discontinue purchasing our brands. Although we do not believe that sales of counterfeit Newport cigarettes have had a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits to date, the availability of counterfeit Newport cigarettes together with the potential regulation of cigarettes and their ingredients, substantial increases in excise taxes and other potential price increases could result in increased demand for counterfeit product that could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. 24 Table of Contents We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to maintain and further build brand recognition is dependent on the continued and exclusive use of our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the unique features of our tobacco products. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are ineffective, thereby permitting a third-party to misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from growing or maintaining market share. Our business could be materially adversely affected by any failure, interruption or security lapse of our information technology systems. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on our information systems. The failure of our current systems, or future upgrades, to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, disrupting our business. In addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have in place various processes, procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to prevent a material security threat. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of sensitive information or damage to our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: • a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how our shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our board with time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to prevent such takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in our best interests and those of our shareholders. The Separation Agreement between us and Loews contains provisions that may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. The tax-free nature of the Separation may be affected by certain transactions undertaken by us. In particular, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Separation would become taxable to Loews if it was 25 Table of Contents determined that 50% or more of the shares of our Common Stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. If, as a result of acquisitions of our Common Stock subsequent to the Separation, the Separation becomes taxable pursuant to Section 355(e), Loews would recognize a substantial gain for tax purposes as the Separation would be treated as a sale of Lorillard for federal income tax purposes. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loews’s fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential acquirer obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. These restrictions and potential indemnification obligations may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. We are required to indemnify Loews against losses and other expenses incurred at any time (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation) with respect to our assets, properties and businesses. In the Separation Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, litigation matters and other claims) based on, arising out of or resulting from, among other things, the ownership or the operation of us and our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of us and our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation). If Loews incurs legal or other fees or costs and expenses resulting from the operation of our businesses or otherwise with respect to us, we are required to reimburse Loews for such losses and any legal or other fees related thereto, which could be substantial. These indemnification obligations may discourage third parties from trying to acquire us because our indemnification obligations are binding on our successors and we are prohibited by the Separation Agreement from merging, consolidating or transferring all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor agrees to be bound by these indemnification obligations. In addition, we could face substantial charges for indemnification payments to Loews, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We do not believe the Separation has altered or will alter our legal exposure with respect to tobacco-related claims. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 