Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, could cause our results to differ materially from results that have been or may be anticipated or projected. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to update these statements to reflect any change in expectations or beliefs or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is or may be based. PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview Lorillard is the third largest manufacturer of cigarettes in the United States. Founded in 1760, Lorillard is the oldest continuously operating tobacco company in the United States. Newport, our flagship premium cigarette brand, is the top selling menthol and second largest selling cigarette brand overall in the United States based on gross units sold in 2014. The Newport brand, which includes both menthol and non-menthol product offerings, accounted for approximately 86.5% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014. In addition to the Newport brand, our product line has four additional brand families marketed under the Kent, True, Maverick, and Old Gold brand names. These five brands include 45 different product offerings which vary in price, taste, flavor, length and packaging. In 2014, we shipped 39.0 billion cigarettes, all of which were sold in the United States and certain U.S. possessions and territories. Lorillard, through its other subsidiaries, is also a leading global electronic cigarette company, marketed under the blu eCigs brand. Newport, Kent, True, Maverick, Old Gold, blu eCigs and SKYCIG are the registered trademarks of Lorillard and its subsidiaries. We sold substantially all of our major cigarette trademarks outside of the United States in 1977. We maintain our headquarters and manufacture all of our traditional cigarette products in Greensboro, North Carolina. We produce cigarettes for both the premium and discount segments of the domestic cigarette market. We do not compete in a subcategory of the discount segment that we identify as the deep discount segment. Premium brands are well known, established brands marketed at higher retail prices. Discount brands are generally less well recognized brands marketed at lower retail prices. We define the deep discount subcategory to include brands sold at the lowest retail prices. Deep discount cigarettes are typically manufactured by smaller companies, relative to us and other major U.S. manufacturers, many of which have no, or significantly lower, payment obligations under the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the “MSA”) and the settlements of similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota, collectively the “State Settlement Agreements”. On July 15, 2014, Lorillard Inc., Reynolds American Inc., a North Carolina corporation (“RAI”), and Lantern Acquisition Co., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of RAI (“Merger Sub”), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, Merger Sub will merge with and into Lorillard Inc. (the “Merger”), with Lorillard Inc. surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of RAI. Refer to “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Recent Developments” contained in Part II, Item 7, of this report for additional information. 2 Table of Contents Advertising and Sales Promotion The predominant form of promotion in the industry and for us consists of retail price reduction programs, such as discounting or lowering the price of a pack or carton of cigarettes in the retail store. These programs are developed, implemented and executed by our sales force through merchandising or promotional agreements with retail chain accounts and independent retailers. We focus our retail programs in markets and stores reflecting unique potential for increased menthol cigarette sales. Our direct buying wholesale customers provide us with information as to the quantities of cigarettes shipped to their retail accounts on a weekly basis. This data covers approximately 99% of domestic wholesale units shipped by us and our major competitors, and enables us to analyze, plan and execute retail promotion programs in markets and stores that optimize the most efficient and effective return on our promotional investments. We employ other promotion methods to communicate with our adult consumers as well as with adult smokers of our competitors’ products. These promotional programs include the use of direct marketing communications, retail coupons, relationship marketing and promotional materials intended to be displayed at retail. Relationship marketing entails the use of various communication techniques to directly reach adult consumers in order to establish a relationship with them for the purpose of advertising and promoting a product or products. We use our proprietary database of adult smokers of our brands and our competitors’ brands to deliver targeted communications about a given brand through age-restricted direct mail and internet programs. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, sales promotion costs in any particular fiscal period are not necessarily indicative of costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. Advertising plays a relatively lesser role in our overall marketing strategy for cigarettes. We advertise Newport in a limited number of magazines that meet certain requirements regarding the age and composition of their readership. Newport is our only cigarette brand that receives magazine advertising support. Advertising of cigarettes through television and radio has been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, the participating cigarette manufacturers agreed to severe restrictions on their advertising and promotion activities including, among other things: • prohibiting the targeting of youth in the advertising, promotion or marketing of cigarettes; • banning the use of cartoon characters in all cigarette advertising and promotion; • limiting each cigarette manufacturer to one brand-name event sponsorship during any twelve-month period, which may not include major team sports or events in which the intended audience includes a significant percentage of youth; • banning all outdoor advertising of cigarettes with the exception of small signs at retail establishments that sell tobacco products; • banning cigarette manufacturers from offering or selling apparel and other merchandise that bears a cigarette brand name, subject to specified exceptions; • prohibiting the distribution of free samples of cigarettes except within adult-only facilities; • prohibiting payments for cigarette placement in various media; and • banning gift offers based on the purchase of cigarettes without sufficient proof that the intended gift recipient is an adult. In June 2009, the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the “FSPTCA”) was enacted granting authority over the regulation of certain tobacco products to the FDA, excluding electronic cigarettes. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally 3 Table of Contents promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over certain tobacco products. The FSPTCA also contains other restrictions, some of which may be more stringent than those found in the original 1995 FDA rule, affecting the advertising, marketing and sale of cigarette products. See the section entitled “Legislation and Regulation” below for additional information concerning the marketing and sales provisions of the FSPTCA. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting cigarette advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. We cannot predict the impact of such initiatives on our marketing and sales efforts. We fund a Youth Smoking Prevention Program, which is designed to discourage youth from using cigarettes and electronic cigarettes by promoting parental involvement and assisting parents in discussing the issue with their children. We are also a founding member of the Coalition for Responsible Tobacco Retailing which through its “We Card” program trains retailers in how to prevent the purchase of cigarettes by underage persons. In addition, we have adopted guidelines established by the National Association of Attorneys General to restrict advertising in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. Electronic cigarettes are generally less regulated than cigarettes. Accordingly, a wider variety of marketing programs are available. The predominant forms of advertising and promotion in the electronic cigarette industry are television, print advertising, sampling events and web based advertising. blu eCigs requires all purchasers of their electronic cigarettes to be at least 18 years of age in both the U.S. and U.K. During 2012, the FDA indicated that it intends to regulate electronic cigarettes under the FSPTCA through the issuance of deeming regulations that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of a “tobacco product” under the FSPTCA subject to the FDA’s jurisdiction. On April 25, 2014, FDA issued a proposed rule that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of “tobacco product”, and opened a docket for public comment. As of February 6, 2015, the FDA has not issued a final rule on this matter. Customers and Distribution Our field sales personnel are based throughout the United States, and we maintain field sales offices throughout the United States. Our sales department is divided into regions based on geography and sales territories. We sell our products primarily to wholesale distributors, who in turn service retail outlets, chain store organizations, and government agencies, including the U.S. Armed Forces. Upon completion of the manufacturing process, we ship cigarettes to public distribution warehouse facilities for rapid order fulfillment to wholesalers and other direct buying customers. We retain a portion of our manufactured cigarettes at our Greensboro central distribution center and Greensboro cold-storage facility for future finished goods replenishment. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 500 direct buying customers servicing more than 400,000 retail accounts for our cigarettes. We do not sell cigarettes directly to consumers. During 2014, 2013, and 2012, sales made by us to the McLane Company, Inc. comprised 29%, 29% and 29%, respectively, of our cigarette revenues. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of 2014, 2013 or 2012 cigarette revenues. We do not have any written sales agreements with our customers, including the McLane Company, Inc. that provide for any backlog orders. Most of our customers buy cigarettes on a next-day-delivery basis. Customer orders are shipped from public distribution warehouses via third party carriers. We do not ship products directly to retail stores. In 2014, approximately 99% of our customers purchased cigarettes using electronic funds transfer, which provides immediate payment to us. As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 400 direct buying customers providing blu eCigs electronic cigarettes to approximately 176,000 retail accounts in the U.S. blu (U.K.) sells electronic cigarettes through retail outlets in the U.K. We also sell electronic cigarettes directly to adult consumers over the internet. We do not have any written sales agreements with our customers that provide for any backlog orders for electronic cigarettes. Customer orders are shipped primarily from a public distribution warehouse via third party carriers. 4 Table of Contents Raw Materials and Manufacturing In our production of cigarettes, we use domestic and foreign grown burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos, as well as aromatic tobaccos grown primarily in Turkey and other Near Eastern countries. We believe that there is an adequate supply of leaf tobacco of the type and quality we require at competitive prices from a combination of global sources, and that we are not dependent on any one geographic region or country for our requirements. An affiliate of Reynolds American Inc. (“RAI”) manufactures all of our reconstituted tobacco pursuant to our specifications, as set forth in an agreement between us and RAI. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper-like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. We purchase our leaf tobacco through tobacco dealers, which contract with leaf growers. Such purchases are made at prevailing market prices in the country of origin. Due to the varying size and quality of annual crops, changes in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other foreign currencies and other economic factors, tobacco prices have historically fluctuated. We direct these dealers in the purchase of tobacco according to our specifications for quality, grade, yield, particle size, moisture content, and other characteristics. The dealers purchase and process the whole leaf and then dry and package it for shipment to and storage at our Danville, Virginia facility. We have not experienced any difficulty in purchasing our requirement of leaf tobacco. We purchased approximately 80%, 86% and 90% of our leaf tobacco from 3, 4 and 4 suppliers in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If these suppliers become unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that we can readily obtain high quality leaf tobacco from well-established, alternative industry sources. However, we believe that such high quality leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay currently. We store our tobacco in 29 storage warehouses on our 130-acre Danville, Virginia facility. To protect against loss, amounts of all types and grades of tobacco are stored in separate warehouses. Certain types of tobacco used in our blends must be allowed to mature over time to allow natural chemical changes that enhance certain characteristics affecting taste. Because of these aging requirements, we maintain large quantities of leaf tobacco at all times. We believe our current tobacco inventories are sufficient and adequately balanced for our present and expected production requirements. If necessary, we can typically purchase aged tobacco in the open market to supplement existing inventories. We produce cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing plant, which has a production capacity of approximately 200 million cigarettes per day and approximately 50 billion cigarettes per year. Through various automated systems and sensors, we actively monitor all phases of production to promote quality and compliance with applicable regulations. All raw materials used in the manufacture of our electronic cigarettes, with the exception of the liquid flavorings used by blu eCigs in the U.S., are produced by various suppliers located in Asia. The liquid flavorings used in our blu eCigs electronic cigarettes products in the U.S., which have varieties with and without nicotine, are manufactured in the U.S. and exported to Asian based manufacturers for assembly. All of our electronic cigarettes are manufactured and assembled in Asia and imported to the United States for blu eCigs and United Kingdom for blu (U.K.). Research and Development We have an experienced research and development team that continuously evaluates new products and line extensions and assesses new technologies and scientific advancements to be able to respond to marketplace demands and developing regulatory requirements. Our primary research and development facility is located in Greensboro, North Carolina, and we have an electronic cigarette research and development facility in Campbell, California. Our research and development efforts focus primarily on: • developing quality products that appeal to adult consumers; • studying and developing consumer-acceptable products with the potential for reduced exposure to smoke constituents or reduced health risk; 5 Table of Contents • improving the quality and consistency of existing electronic cigarette products; • developing advancements in electronic cigarette technology aimed at improving consumer acceptability and realizing the potential for harm reduction compared to cigarette products; • identifying and investigating, through the use of internal and external resources, suspect constituents of cigarette and electronic products or their components to determine the feasibility of reduction or elimination; • maintaining state-of-the-art knowledge about public health and scientific issues related to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes; • developing new, or modifying existing, products, processes, and analytical methods for cigarettes and electronic cigarettes to ensure high quality, accurate data, to promote quality control, and to comply with current and anticipated laws and regulations; and • collaborating and cooperating with public and private scientific institutions and encouraging independent research relating to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes. Tobacco-related research activities include: the analysis of cigarette components, including cigarette paper, filters, tobacco and ingredients, including menthol; analysis of mainstream smoke; and modification of cigarette design. We employ advanced scientific equipment in our research efforts, including gas chromatographs, liquid chromatographs, and mass spectrometers coupled with gas and liquid chromatographs. We use this equipment to structurally identify and measure the amount of chemical compounds found in cigarette smoke and various tobaccos. These measurements allow us to better understand the relationship between the tobacco, cigarette construction, and the smoke yielded from cigarettes. In addition, advanced analytical instrumentation is utilized to develop, validate, and apply analytical methods to determine the chemical compositions of e-liquids, e-cigarette aerosols, and exhaled vapor. Also, advanced biological techniques are developed and used to test the biological impact of tobacco smoke and e-cigarette aerosols on cells and advance our understanding of potential biomarkers for disease risk. Information Technology We are committed to the use of information technology throughout the organization to provide operating effectiveness, cost reduction and competitive advantages. We believe our system platform provides the appropriate level of information in a timely fashion to effectively manage the business. We utilize proven technologies while also continuously exploring new technologies consistent with our information technology architecture strategy. Our information technology environment is anchored by an SAP enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) system designed to meet the processing and analysis needs of our core business operations and financial control requirements. The process control and production methods in our manufacturing operation utilize barcode scanning, radio frequency identification, robotics, wireless technologies and software products to monitor and control the manufacturing process. Our primary data center is located at our corporate headquarters and is staffed by an in-house team of experienced information technology professionals. A satellite data center, located at a separate facility in Greensboro, supports our manufacturing environment. In addition, we have a comprehensive redundancy and disaster recovery plan in place. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we had approximately 2,900 full-time employees. As of that date, approximately 1,100 of those employees were represented by labor unions covered by two collective bargaining agreements. Local Union #317T Greensboro of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL-CIO-CLC) represents workers at our Greensboro cigarette manufacturing plant. In August 2011, a new collective bargaining agreement covering this Union was approved, which expires in September 2015. Workers at our Danville, Virginia tobacco storage facility are also represented by Local Union #317T Danville 6 Table of Contents of the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (AFL-CIO-CLC). In March 2012, a new collective bargaining agreement covering Local Union #317T of Danville was approved, which expires in April 2016. We have historically had an amicable relationship with the unions representing our employees. We provide a retirement plan, a profit sharing plan and other benefits for our hourly paid employees who are represented by unions. In addition, we provide to our salaried employees a retirement plan, group life, disability and health insurance program and a savings plan. We also maintain an incentive compensation plan for certain salaried employees, and an employee stock purchase plan under which certain full-time employees may purchase shares of Lorillard common stock. Intellectual Property We believe that our trademarks, including brand names, are important to our business. We own the patents, trade secrets, know-how and trademarks, including our brand names and the distinctive packaging and displays, used by us in our business. All of our material trademarks are registered with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Rights in these trademarks in the United States will continue indefinitely as long as we continue to use the trademarks. We consider the blends of tobacco and the flavor formulas used to make our brands to be trade secrets. These trade secrets are generally not the subject of patents, though various manufacturing processes are patented. We sold the international rights to substantially all of our major cigarette brands, including Newport, in 1977. Competition The domestic market for cigarettes is highly competitive. Competition is primarily based on a brand’s taste; quality; price, including the level of discounting and other promotional activities; positioning; consumer loyalty; and retail display. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris USA Inc. (“Philip Morris”), a subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc. and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (“RJR Tobacco”), a subsidiary of RAI. We also compete with numerous other smaller manufacturers and importers of cigarettes. We believe our ability to compete even more effectively has been restrained in some marketing areas as a result of retail merchandising contracts offered by Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco which limit the retail shelf space available to our brands. As a result, in some retail locations we are limited in competitively supporting our promotional programs, which may constrain sales. The market for electronic cigarettes is evolving at a very fast pace and is very fragmented, with many companies competing with similar product offerings. In the competition for retail presence, blu eCigs has begun the process of differentiating itself from the competition with unique technology, impactful displays and point of sale materials. The method of distribution for many competing companies is predominately over the internet, with only a small but growing number of competitors currently having a significant presence at retail. Please read the sections entitled “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment” and “—Selected Industry and Domestic Cigarette Retail Market Share Data” beginning on pages 47 and 51, respectively, for additional information. Legislation and Regulation Our business operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, the research, development and manufacture of cigarettes and electronic cigarettes; the 7 Table of Contents development of new tobacco products; the publication of health warnings on cigarette packaging and advertising; the marketing and sale of tobacco products; restrictions on the use of tobacco products in public places; and fire safety standards. From time to time, new legislation and regulations are proposed and reports are published by government sponsored committees and others recommending additional regulation of tobacco products. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proposals, reports and recommendations. If they are enacted or implemented, certain of these proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition or results of operations in the future. Federal Regulation The Federal Comprehensive Smoking Education Act, which became effective in 1985, requires that cigarette packaging and advertising display one of the following four warning statements, on a rotating basis: (1) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Smoking Causes Lung Cancer, Heart Disease, Emphysema, and May Complicate Pregnancy.” (2) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Quitting Smoking Now Greatly Reduces Serious Risks to Your Health.” (3) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Smoking By Pregnant Women May Result in Fetal Injury, Premature Birth, and Low Birth Weight.” (4) “SURGEON GENERAL’S WARNING: Cigarette Smoke Contains Carbon Monoxide.” This law also requires that each company that manufactures, packages or imports cigarettes shall annually provide to the Secretary of Health and Human Services a list of the ingredients added to tobacco in the manufacture of cigarettes. This list of ingredients may be submitted in a manner that does not identify the company that uses the ingredients or the brand of cigarettes that contain the ingredients. In addition, bills have been introduced in Congress, including those that would: • prohibit all tobacco advertising and promotion; • authorize the establishment of various anti-smoking education programs; • provide that current federal law should not be construed to relieve any person of liability under common or state law; • permit state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of cigarettes; • direct the placement of advertising of tobacco products; • provide that cigarette advertising not be deductible as a business expense; • restrict the sale or distribution of cigarettes in retail stores, by mail or over the internet; • impose additional, or increase existing, excise taxes on cigarettes; and • require that cigarettes be manufactured in a manner that will cause them, under certain circumstances, to be self-extinguishing. In June 2009, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was enacted granting the Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) authority to regulate tobacco products. As it relates to cigarettes, the legislation: • establishes a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol; • grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; 8 Table of Contents • requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on cigarette packs, cartons, and advertising; • bans the use of descriptors on cigarettes, such as “low tar” and “light”; • bans the distribution of free samples of cigarettes; • requires the disclosure of cigarette ingredients and additives; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA of all new cigarette products, including substantially equivalent products; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA for all claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; • allows the FDA to review existing products to determine whether these products are substantially equivalent to other products in the market; • allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and • permits inconsistent state regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes and eliminates the existing federal preemption of such regulation. The legislation permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. It is possible that such additional regulation, including regulation of menthol short of a ban thereof, could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands), increased costs to us, and/or the development of a significant black market for cigarettes, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. During 2012, the FDA indicated that it intends to regulate electronic cigarettes under the FSPTCA through the issuance of deeming regulations that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of a “tobacco product” under the FSPTCA subject to the FDA’s jurisdiction. On April 25, 2014, FDA issued a proposed rule that would include electronic cigarettes under the definition of “tobacco product”, and opened a docket for public comment. As of February 6, 2015, the FDA had not issued its final regulation on this matter. We cannot predict the scope of such regulations or the impact they may have on our electronic cigarette business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business in the future. Environmental Tobacco Smoke Various publications and studies by governmental entities have reported that environmental tobacco smoke (“ETS”), also called second-hand smoke, presents health risks. In addition, public health organizations have issued statements on the adverse health effects of ETS, and scientific papers have been published that address the health problems associated with ETS exposure. Various states, cities and municipalities have restricted public smoking in recent years, and these restrictions have been based at least in part on the publications regarding the health risks believed to be associated with ETS exposure. The governmental entities that have published these reports have included the Surgeon General of the United States, first with a report focused on the health risks of ETS in 1986 and again in 2006. The 2006 report, for instance, concluded that there is no risk-free level of exposure to ETS. In 2000, the Department of Health and Human Services listed ETS as a known human carcinogen. In 1993, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency concluded that ETS is a human lung carcinogen in adults and causes respiratory effects in children. The Surgeon 9 Table of Contents General also addressed the health risks of ETS in the 2010 Report of the Surgeon General on “How Tobacco Smoke Causes Disease: The Biology and Behavioral Basis for Smoking-Attributable Disease” (“2010 Surgeon General Report”). Agencies of state governments also have issued publications regarding ETS, including reports by California entities that were published in 1997, 1999 and 2006. In the 2006 study, the California Air Resources Board determined that ETS is a toxic air contaminant. Based on these or other findings, public health concerns regarding ETS have led and could continue to lead to the imposition of additional restrictions on public smoking, including bans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. State and Local Regulation Many state, local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit or restrict, or are intended to discourage the use of cigarettes and electronic cigarettes, including legislation, regulations or policies prohibiting or restricting smoking in various places such as public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars and on airline flights and in the workplace. Two states, Massachusetts and Texas, have enacted legislation requiring each manufacturer of cigarettes sold in those states to submit an annual report identifying for each brand sold certain “added constituents,” and providing nicotine yield ratings and other information for certain brands. Neither law allows for the public release of trade secret information. A New York law which became effective in June 2004 requires cigarettes sold in that state to meet a mandated standard for ignition propensity. We developed proprietary technology to comply with the standards and were compliant by the effective date. Following the passage of the New York law, every state and the District of Columbia have passed similar laws utilizing the same technical standards. The effective dates of these laws ranged from May 2006 to January 2011. Since November 1, 2009, all of our cigarettes have been manufactured using this technology. Other similar laws and regulations have been enacted or considered by other state and local governments and may include electronic cigarettes as well as cigarettes. We cannot predict the impact which these regulations may have on our business, though if enacted, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in the future. Excise Taxes and Assessments Cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes in the United States and, in general, such taxes have been increasing. Effective April 1, 2009, the federal excise tax on cigarettes increased to $50.33 per thousand cigarettes (or $1.0066 per pack of 20 cigarettes) from $19.50 per thousand cigarettes (or $0.39 per pack of 20 cigarettes). State excise taxes, which are levied upon and paid by the distributors, are also in effect in the fifty states, the District of Columbia and many municipalities. During 2014, there were two state excise tax increases, $0.13 per pack implemented in the state of Oregon and $0.13 per pack implemented in the state of Vermont, as well as municipal excise tax increases that included a $2.00 per pack increase in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a $0.50 per pack increase in the City of Chicago, Illinois, and a $0.04 per pack excise tax increase in the District of Columbia. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, the combined state and municipal taxes ranged from $0.17 to $6.16 per pack of cigarettes. A federal law enacted in October 2004 repealed the federal supply management program for tobacco growers and compensated tobacco quota holders and growers with payments to be funded by an assessment on tobacco manufacturers and importers. Cigarette manufacturers and importers were responsible for paying 88.2% of a $10.14 billion payment to tobacco quota holders and growers over a ten-year period which expired in the third quarter of 2014. The law provides that payments were based on shipments for domestic consumption. 10 Table of Contents Electronic cigarettes are generally not subject to federal, state and local excise taxes. However, two states have imposed an excise tax on electronic cigarettes and certain other jurisdictions are considering imposing excise taxes and other restrictions on electronic cigarettes. Separation Agreement with Loews Corporation Prior to June 10, 2008, Lorillard, Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Loews Corporation (“Loews”), a publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). Our results of operations and financial condition were included as a separate reporting segment in Loews’s financial statements and filings with the SEC. On June 10, 2008, we began operating as an independent, publicly traded company pursuant to our separation from Loews (the “Separation”). In connection with the Separation, we entered into an agreement with Loews on May 7, 2008 to provide for the separation of our business from Loews as well as providing for indemnification and allocation of taxes between the parties (the “Separation Agreement”). The Separation Agreement sets forth the relationship between Lorillard and Loews following the Separation, including provisions relating to indemnification and tax allocation between the parties. Indemnification Provisions We agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against all costs and expenses arising out of third party claims (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees, interest, penalties and costs of investigation or preparation for defense), judgments, fines, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, taxes, demands, assessments and amounts paid in settlement based on, arising out of or resulting from: • the ownership or the operation of our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to any smoking and health claims and litigation); • certain tax matters, as discussed below; • any other activities in which we may engage; • any action or omission by us (or any successor entity) that causes the Separation to become taxable to Loews; • any breach by us of the Separation Agreement; • any other acts or omissions by us arising out of the performance of our obligations under the Separation Agreement; • misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, other than misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement; and • any taxes and related losses resulting from the receipt of any such indemnity payment. Our indemnification obligations, including the tax indemnification obligations described below, are binding on our successors. We are not permitted to merge, consolidate, transfer or convey all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor expressly agrees in writing to be bound by these indemnification obligations. Any equity security or equity interest of Lorillard Licensing Company, LLC (“Lorillard Licensing”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and owner of our trademarks, or any interest in the intellectual property owned by Lorillard Licensing, is deemed a “significant portion” for purposes of the foregoing. We also agreed to release Loews and its shareholders, officers, directors and employees from any liability owed by any of them to us with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. 11 Table of Contents The Separation Agreement also provides that Loews will indemnify us and our officers, directors, employees and agents against losses, including but not limited to, litigation matters, and other claims, based on, arising out of or resulting from: • any activity that Loews and its subsidiaries (other than us) engage in; • any breach by Loews of the Separation Agreement; • any other acts or omissions by Loews arising out of the performance of its obligations under the Separation Agreement; and • misstatements in or omissions from the registration statement filed with regard to the Separation, but only with respect to misstatements or omissions made in reliance on information relating to and furnished by Loews for use in the preparation of such registration statement. Loews agreed to release us and all of our directors, officers and employees from any liability owed by any of us to Loews with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Separation date, except with respect to tax matters. Available Information We are listed on the NYSE under the symbol “LO.” Our principal offices are located at 714 Green Valley Road, Greensboro, North Carolina 27408. Our telephone number is (336) 335-7000. Our corporate website is located at www.lorillard.com, and our filings pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act are available free of charge on our website under the tabs “Investor Relations—Financial Reporting—SEC Filings” as soon as reasonably practicable after such filings are electronically filed with the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and charters for the audit, compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees of our Board of Directors are also available on our website under the tabs, “Investor Relations—Governance” and printed copies are available upon request. The information contained on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings we make with the SEC, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. Investors may also read and copy any materials that we file at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Readers may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an internet site at www.sec.gov that contains our reports. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Pending Merger with Reynolds American Inc. The completion of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others, regulatory approval and the absence of legal restraints prohibiting the completion of the Merger. Each party’s obligation to consummate the Merger is also subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party (subject to certain qualifications and exceptions) and the performance in all material respects of the other party’s covenants under the Merger Agreement, including, with respect to us, certain covenants regarding operation of our business prior to completion of the Merger. As a result of these conditions, we cannot assure you that the Merger will be completed or that, if completed, it will be exactly on the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement. If the Merger is not completed for any reason, we expect that we would continue to be managed by our current management, under the direction of our board of directors. If the proposed Merger is not completed, our stock price will likely fall to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that a transaction will be completed. In addition, the failure of 12 Table of Contents the proposed Merger to be completed may result in negative publicity and/or a negative impression of us in the investment community and may affect our relationship with employees, customers and other partners in the business community. The Merger process could adversely affect our business, stock price, reputation and results of operations. Our efforts to complete the Merger could cause substantial disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Among other things, uncertainty as to whether a transaction will be completed with RAI may affect our ability to recruit prospective employees or to retain and motivate existing employees. Employee retention may be particularly challenging while the Merger is pending, because employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with RAI or Imperial, as the case may be. Uncertainty as to our future could adversely affect our business, reputation and our relationship with existing customers and suppliers and potential customers and suppliers. For example, customers, suppliers and others that deal with us could defer decisions concerning working with us, or seek to change existing business relationships with us. Further, a substantial amount of the attention of management and employees is being directed toward completion of the Merger and thus is being diverted from our day-to-day operations because matters related to the Merger require substantial commitments of time and resources. While the Merger Agreement is in effect, we are subject to restrictions on our business activities. While the Merger Agreement is in effect, we are subject to restrictions on our business activities and must generally operate our business in the ordinary course in all material respects (subject to certain exceptions). These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that arise prior to the completion of the Merger and are generally outside the ordinary course of business, and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or financial condition. FDA regulation of menthol in cigarettes and concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks could adversely affect our business. Some plaintiffs in our litigation and constituencies, including the FDA and other public health agencies, have claimed or expressed concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks and may impact public health more than non-mentholated cigarettes, including concerns that mentholated cigarettes may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit, and may seek restrictions or a ban on the production and sale of mentholated cigarettes. For example, in 2014 the European Union adopted a ban on the sale of characterizing flavors in cigarettes, including menthol, which will become effective in 2022. Any ban or material limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Following the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act (the “FSPTCA”) in June 2009, the FDA established the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee (the “TPSAC”) to evaluate, among other things, “the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health, including such use among children, African-Americans, Hispanics, and other racial and ethnic minorities.” In addition, the FSPTCA permits the FDA to impose restrictions regarding the use of menthol in cigarettes, including a ban, if those restrictions would be appropriate for the public health. The TPSAC or the Menthol Report Subcommittee held meetings on March 30-31, 2010, July 15-16, 2010, September 27, 2010, October 7, 2010, November 18, 2010, January 10-11, 2011, February 10-11, 2011, March 2, 2011, March 17-18, 2011 and July 21, 2011 to consider the issues surrounding the use of menthol in cigarettes. At the March 18, 2011 meeting, TPSAC presented its report and recommendations on menthol. The report’s findings included that menthol likely increases experimentation and regular smoking, menthol likely increases the likelihood and degree of addiction for youth smokers, non-white menthol smokers (particularly African-Americans) are less likely to quit smoking and are less responsive to certain cessation medications, and that consumers continue to believe that smoking 13 Table of Contents menthol cigarettes is less harmful than smoking non-menthol cigarettes as a result of the cigarette industry’s historical marketing. TPSAC’s overall recommendation to the FDA was that “[r]emoval of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health in the United States.” At the July 21, 2011 meeting, TPSAC considered revisions to its report, and the voting members unanimously approved the final report for submission to the FDA with no change in its recommendation. On June 27, 2011, the FDA provided a progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In the June 2011 update, the FDA stated that “[e]xperts within the FDA Center for Tobacco Products are conducting an independent review of the science related to the impact [of menthol] in cigarettes on public health ” The FDA stated that it would submit its draft independent review of menthol science to an external peer review panel in July 2011. On January 26, 2012, the FDA provided a second progress report on its review of the science related to menthol cigarettes. In its January 2012 update, the FDA stated that “FDA submitted its report to external scientists for peer review, and the agency is revising its report based on their feedback.” On July 23, 2013, the FDA made available its preliminary scientific evaluation (“PSE”) of public health issues related to the use of menthol in cigarettes and peer review comments thereto. Although the FDA PSE found that menthol in cigarettes is not associated with increased smoke toxicity, increased levels of biomarkers of exposure or increased disease risk, the evaluation concluded that menthol in cigarettes is likely associated with increased initiation and progression to regular cigarette smoking, increased dependence, reduced success of smoking cessation, especially among African American menthol smokers, altered physiological responses to tobacco smoke and particular patterns of smoking. In the preliminary scientific evaluation, the FDA concluded that menthol cigarettes likely pose a public health risk above that seen with non-menthol cigarettes. The FDA also issued an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (“ANPRM”) seeking comments on the PSE and requesting additional information related to potential regulatory options it might consider for the regulation of menthol. The FDA requested comments regarding, among other things, information on potential product standards for levels of menthol in cigarettes; the timeframe for compliance with any product standard enacted; whether a stepped approach to lowering or removing menthol from cigarettes would be appropriate; whether sales, distribution, advertising or promotion restrictions are appropriate; and evidence, including public health impact, of any potential illicit market in menthol cigarettes should they no longer be available. In addition, the FDA announced that it is funding new research on, among other things, the differences between menthol and nonmenthol cigarettes to obtain information to assist FDA in making informed decisions related to potential regulation of menthol in cigarettes. The FDA established a 60-day comment period for the ANPRM and PSE, and said it will consider all comments and other information submitted to determine what, if any, regulatory action is appropriate. On September 11, 2013, the FDA extended the comment period for an additional 60 days to November 22, 2013. On November 21, 2013, the Company provided comments on the ANPRM and PSE to the FDA. If the FDA determines that regulation of menthol is warranted, the FDA could promulgate regulations that, among other things, could result in a ban on or restrictions on the use of menthol in cigarettes. Since we are the leading manufacturer of mentholated cigarettes in the United States, we could face increased exposure to tobacco-related litigation as a result of such allegations. Even if such claims are unsubstantiated, increased concerns about the health impact of mentholated cigarettes could materially adversely affect our sales, including sales of Newport. A ban or limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes by the FDA would materially adversely affect our business. The regulation of cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may materially adversely affect our business. In June 2009, the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was enacted granting the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products. As it relates to cigarettes, the legislation: • establishes a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee to, among other things, evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes and issue a nonbinding recommendation to the FDA regarding menthol; 14 Table of Contents • grants the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes; • requires larger and more severe health warnings, including graphic images, on cigarette packs, cartons and advertising; • bans the use of descriptors on cigarettes, such as “low tar” and “light”; • requires the disclosure of cigarette ingredients and additives; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA of all new cigarette products, including substantially equivalent products; • requires pre-market approval by the FDA for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; • allows the FDA to require the reduction of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in cigarettes; • allows the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; and • permits possible inconsistent state and local regulation of the advertising or promotion of cigarettes and eliminates the existing federal preemption of such regulation. We believe that such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, under the FSPTCA, we must file a report with the FDA substantiating that any cigarettes introduced or modified after February 15, 2007 are “substantially equivalent” to cigarettes on the market before that date to enable the agency to determine whether the new or modified products are “substantially equivalent” to specific predicate products already being sold. For any products introduced or modified between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011, initial reports were required to be filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. The FDA announced that a product introduced or modified before March 22, 2011 may remain on the market pending the FDA’s review, provided a “substantially equivalent” report was filed with the FDA on or before March 22, 2011. We believe, based on the limited guidance issued by the FDA to date, that we were required to file, and have filed, reports for all of our cigarettes on or before March 22, 2011 since modifications had been made to our products since 2007. While all of our cigarettes may remain on the market pending the FDA’s review, they are subject to removal should the FDA determine any are not “substantially equivalent.” In addition, products introduced on or after March 22, 2011 require pre-market approval by the FDA which may be subject to similar or more restrictive procedures. One component of our strategic plan is the introduction of new cigarette products in adjacent market segments, in which we do not have a significant presence. We have submitted a number of requests for approval of substantially equivalent new products with the FDA. Although we believe that the statutory language of the FSPTCA suggests the pre-market approval process should take 90 days for substantially equivalent new products, the FDA has approved only two substantially equivalent new product applications by us on June 25, 2013 (after more than 20 months of review). We believe our ability to execute our strategic plan has been negatively impacted by the delay in the FDA’s new product approval process. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA may also undertake various investigative and enforcement actions, including facility inspections, requests for documentation and other information, other examinations and investigations, seeking injunctive relief, money penalties and product withdrawals, recalls and seizures. Any of these FDA actions could result in significant costs to our businesses or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents As of February 6, 2015, Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 6,228 product liability cases, including approximately 636 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant. Lorillard, Inc. is a defendant in one case in which Lorillard Tobacco is not a defendant. In addition to the product liability cases, Lorillard Tobacco and, in some instances, Lorillard, Inc., are defendants in Filter Cases, Tobacco-Related Antitrust Cases, and MSA-Related Cases. These cases, which are extremely costly to defend, could result in substantial judgments against Lorillard Tobacco and/or Lorillard, Inc. Numerous legal actions, proceedings and claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes are pending against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., and it is likely that similar claims will continue to be filed for the foreseeable future. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in 61 Filter cases. Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant in two of the 61 Filter Cases that are pending against Lorillard Tobacco. Lorillard, Inc. is also a defendant in one additional Filter case in which Lorillard Tobacco is not a defendant. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in one Tobacco-Related Antitrust case. Lorillard, Inc. is not a defendant in this case. In addition, several cases have been filed against Lorillard Tobacco and other tobacco companies challenging certain provisions of the MSA among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions, and state statutes promulgated to carry out and enforce the MSA. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of dollars, are specifically pleaded in a number of cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. It is possible that the outcome of these cases, individually or in the aggregate, could result in bankruptcy. It is also possible that Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. may be unable to post a surety bond in an amount sufficient to stay execution of a judgment in jurisdictions that require such bond pending an appeal on the merits of the case. Even if Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are successful in defending some or all of these actions, these types of cases are very expensive to defend. A material increase in the number of pending claims could significantly increase defense costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Further, adverse decisions in litigations against other tobacco companies could have an adverse impact on the industry, including us. Plaintiffs have been awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in Conventional Product Liability Cases. In December 2010, a Massachusetts jury awarded damages, including punitive damages, from Lorillard Tobacco in a Conventional Product Liability Case, Evans v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts). In September 2011, the court reduced the compensatory damages awarded to the estate of a deceased smoker to $25 million and reduced the award to the deceased smoker’s son to $10 million. The court declined to reduce the jury’s award of $81 million in punitive damages. In December 2011, the court entered a final judgment that awarded $35 million in compensatory damages, $81 million in punitive damages, approximately $2.6 million in attorneys’ fees and costs, and interest on the damages awards at the rate of 12% per year from the date the case was filed in 2004. On June 11, 2013, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the compensatory damages award but remanded the case to the trial court for a new trial on the issue of punitive damages, finding that the jury was inadequately instructed regarding the application of various theories of negligence. Lorillard Tobacco filed a petition for rehearing, which was denied on July 26, 2013. In September 2013, plaintiff filed a motion seeking immediate entry of judgment on the compensatory damages award. At a status conference on September 17, 2013, the trial judge rejected defendant’s proposed procedures for retrial of plaintiff’s claims. Lorillard Tobacco incurred a charge of $79 million, including $35 million for compensatory damages plus statutory interest of 12% per year since June 28, 2004. This amount was paid in October 2013, and the case has been dismissed in its entirety and is now concluded. On July 30, 2014, a verdict was returned in Major v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (California Superior Court, Los Angeles County), a case in which plaintiff alleged that the smoker’s injuries were caused by asbestos fiber and tobacco smoke inhalation. Lorillard Tobacco was the sole defendant at trial. The jury awarded plaintiff $2,736,700 in economic compensatory damages and $15,000,000 in non-economic compensatory 16 Table of Contents damages, for a total compensatory damages award of $17,736,700. Punitive damages were not at issue in this trial. The jury apportioned 50% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 17% to Lorillard Tobacco, and 33% to exposure to cigarettes manufactured by companies other than Lorillard Tobacco. The jury found that exposure to asbestos was not a substantial factor in the smoker’s injuries. On August 25, 2014, the Court entered judgment awarding plaintiff $2,550,000 in non-economic damages (which represents Lorillard Tobacco’s 17% share as found by the jury) and the amount of $1,368,350 in economic damages (under California law, Lorillard Tobacco is responsible for the amount of economic damages that the jury found was the fault of anyone other than plaintiff, not just its 17% share), for a total award against Lorillard Tobacco of $3,918,350. On September 17, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco filed a motion for a new trial and a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict, which the Court denied on October 28, 2014. On November 17, 2014, the Court granted in part and denied in part plaintiff’s motion for trial court costs and pre-judgment interest on the damages award, determining that pre-judgment interest accrued over an approximately 5 year period, excluding an approximately 6 year period during which the case was dismissed prior to re-filing. On November 26, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco noticed an appeal to the California Second District. Court of Appeal from the final judgment awarding compensatory damages and the order granting in part trial court costs and pre-judgment interest. Plaintiff has also noticed an appeal from the order denying in part pre-judgment interest. The Florida Supreme Court’s ruling in Engle has resulted in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The case of Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994) was certified as a class action on behalf of Florida residents, and survivors of Florida residents, who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction to smoking. The case was tried between 1998 and 2000 in a multi-phase trial that resulted in verdicts in favor of the class. In 2006, the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among other things, determined that the case could not proceed further as a class action. In February 2008, the trial court entered an order on remand from the Florida Supreme Court that formally decertified the class. The 2006 ruling by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle also permitted members of the Engle class to file individual claims, including claims for punitive damages. The Florida Supreme Court held that these individual plaintiffs are entitled to rely on a number of the jury’s findings in favor of the plaintiffs in the first phase of the Engle trial. These findings included that smoking cigarettes causes a number of diseases; that cigarettes are addictive or dependence-producing; and that the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., were negligent, breached express and implied warranties, placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, and concealed or conspired to conceal the risks of smoking. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 3,611 cases pending in various state and federal courts in Florida that were filed by members of the Engle class (the “Engle Progeny Cases”), including 633 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant. Lorillard, Inc. is a defendant in one Engle Progeny case in which Lorillard Tobacco is not a defendant. As of February 6, 2015, trial was underway in two Engle Progeny Cases in which Lorillard Tobacco.is a defendant: Caprio v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (State Court, Broward County, Florida) and Landau v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Federal Court, Middle District, Jacksonville, Florida). Lorillard, Inc. is not a defendant in either of these trials. As of February 6, 2015, Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are defendants in Engle Progeny Cases that have been placed on courts’ 2015 trial calendars or in which specific trial dates have been set. Trial schedules are subject to change and it is not possible to predict how many of the Engle Progeny Cases pending against Lorillard Tobacco or Lorillard, Inc. will be tried in 2015. It also is not possible to predict whether some courts will implement procedures that consolidate multiple Engle Progeny Cases for trial. 17 Table of Contents Trials of some of the Engle Progeny Cases have resulted in verdicts that have awarded damages from cigarette manufacturers, including us. As of February 6, 2015, Lorillard has been a defendant in twenty-one Engle Progeny Cases tried to a verdict. Plaintiffs in seventeen Engle Progeny Cases were awarded compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In sixteen of these cases the damages were awarded by the jury, and in one case the court entered an order following trial that awarded plaintiff compensatory damages. In four of the seventeen cases, plaintiffs were awarded punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco. Lorillard, Inc. was a defendant in one of these seventeen cases at the time of verdict. The seventeen cases are listed below in the order in which the verdicts were returned: • In Mrozek v. Lorillard Tobacco Company (Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $6 million in compensatory damages and $11.3 million in punitive damages in March 2011. The jury apportioned 35% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker and 65% to Lorillard Tobacco. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jury’s verdict and awarded plaintiff $3,900,588 in compensatory damages and $11,300,000 in punitive damages plus the applicable statutory rates of annual interest. In December 2012, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment awarding compensatory and punitive damages and Lorillard Tobacco’s motion for rehearing of the appellate court opinion was denied in February 2013. In March 2013, Lorillard Tobacco filed a notice with the Florida Supreme Court seeking review of the appellate court decision. On February 13, 2014, the Florida Supreme Court declined to grant review of this case. In March 2014, Lorillard Tobacco amended the bond necessary to maintain a stay on payment of the final judgment. On March 28, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court, seeking review of the due process issue, and requested that the petition be held and resolved in the same manner as the Duke, Walker, and Brown cases, also pending before the United States Supreme Court. On June 9, 2014, the United States Supreme Court denied the petitions seeking review. The trial court announced on June 25, 2014 that it had granted Lorillard Tobacco’s motion to determine the applicable rates of post-judgment interest that were in dispute. On June 27, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco made a payment of $17,500,197 to satisfy the final judgment awarding compensatory and punitive damages and post-judgment interest. On July 25, 2014, the court entered an order confirming satisfaction of judgment. On July 28, 2014, plaintiff appealed the order determining the rate of post-judgment interest payable on the final judgment, and that appeal remained pending as of February 6, 2015. The Florida First District Court of Appeal provisionally granted plaintiff’s motion for intermediate appellate court attorneys’ fees, ruling that the trial court is authorized to award appellate fees if the trial court determines entitlement to attorneys’ fees. In June 2013, the trial court granted plaintiff’s motion for entitlement to trial court attorneys’ costs and fees and also determined that plaintiff was entitled to intermediate appellate court attorneys’ fees. As of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not determined the amount of trial court or intermediate appellate court fees to award. On February 13, 2014, the Florida Supreme Court provisionally granted plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees in connection with the appeal to the Florida Supreme Court in the amount of $2,500, conditioned on the trial court’s determination of entitlement. • In Tullo v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $4.5 million in compensatory damages in April 2011. The jury assessed 45% of the fault to the smoker, 5% to Lorillard Tobacco and 50% to other defendants. The jury did not award punitive damages to the plaintiff. The court entered a final judgment that awarded plaintiff $225,000 in compensatory damages from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. Defendants noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. In August 2013, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment. On October 16, 2013, defendants filed a notice with the Florida Supreme Court seeking review of the appellate court decision. On March 10, 2014, the trial court entered an order confirming that Lorillard Tobacco had satisfied the judgment awarding compensatory damages and post-judgment interest for an amount totaling approximately $263,400. On March 18, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco filed a notice of voluntary dismissal of their petition seeking review of the Florida Supreme Court and the Court entered an order dismissing the petition for review as to Lorillard Tobacco on May 21, 2014. The 18 Table of Contents Florida Supreme Court declined to accept review of the petition as to the other defendants. Plaintiff is not entitled to recover trial or appellate fees from Lorillard Tobacco. As of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not determined the amount of trial or appellate court costs to award. • In Sulcer v. Lorillard Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, First Judicial Circuit, Escambia County, Florida), in April 2011, the jury awarded $225,000 in compensatory damages to the plaintiff and it assessed 95% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker with 5% allocated to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury did not award punitive damages to the plaintiff. The court entered a final judgment that incorporated the jury’s determination of the parties’ fault and awarded plaintiff $11,250 in compensatory damages. Lorillard Tobacco paid approximately $246,000 to resolve the damages verdict, costs and fees. Following this payment, Sulcer was concluded. • In Jewett v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Duval County, Florida), the jury awarded the estate of the decedent $692,981 in compensatory damages and awarded the plaintiff $400,000 for loss of companionship in May 2011. The jury assessed 70% of the responsibility for the decedent’s injuries to the decedent, 20% to R.J. Reynolds and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury did not award punitive damages to the plaintiff. The final judgment entered by the trial court reflected the jury’s verdict and awarded plaintiff a total of $109,298 from Lorillard Tobacco plus 6% annual interest. In November 2012, the Florida First District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment awarding compensatory damages and ordered the case returned to the trial court for a new trial. In January 2013, the appellate court denied a motion filed by the plaintiff for rehearing of the decision reversing the judgment. Both the plaintiff and defendants filed notices with the Florida Supreme Court seeking review of the appellate court decision. On February 14, 2014, the Florida Supreme Court declined to grant review of this case. As of February 6, 2015, a new trial date had not been set. • In Weingart v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida), in July 2011, the jury determined that the decedent did not sustain any compensatory damages from the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, and it returned a verdict for the defendants that punitive damages were not warranted. The jury assessed 91% of the fault for the decedent’s injuries to the decedent, 3% to Lorillard Tobacco and 3% to each of the other two defendants. Following trial, the court granted in part a motion by the plaintiff to award damages, and it tentatively awarded plaintiff $150,000 in compensatory damages. The court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations to the court’s award of compensatory damages. The final judgment awarded plaintiff $4,500 from Lorillard Tobacco. Defendants noticed an appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal from the order that awarded compensatory damages to the plaintiff and amended their notice of appeal to address the final judgment. On February 13, 2013, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment awarding compensatory damages. Defendants filed a notice with the Florida Supreme Court seeking review of this decision. In March 2012, the trial court entered a judgment against the defendants for costs with Lorillard Tobacco’s share amounting to $43,081 plus 4.75% annual interest. Defendants noticed an appeal from this costs judgment. In June 2013, all defendants satisfied both the final judgment awarding compensatory damages and the costs judgment, with Lorillard Tobacco’s share amounting to approximately $50,000. Defendants’ petition for Florida Supreme Court review and the appeal from the costs judgment have been dismissed. This case is now concluded. • In Sury v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al., (Circuit Court, Fourth Judicial Circuit, Duval County, Florida), in November 2011, the jury awarded plaintiff $1,000,000 in compensatory damages and assessed 60% of the responsibility for the decedent’s injuries to the decedent, 20% to Lorillard Tobacco and 20% to R.J. Reynolds. The jury returned a verdict for the defendants regarding whether punitive damages were warranted. In March 2012, the court entered a final judgment against 19 Table of Contents defendants in the amount of $1,000,000, jointly and severally, plus 4.75% annual interest, declining to apply the jury’s comparative fault findings to causes of action alleging intentional conduct. On June 24, 2013, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment. Defendants’ motion for rehearing of this decision with the Florida First District Court of Appeal was denied in August 2013. The Florida Supreme Court declined review of the intermediate appellate court decision in January 2014. On March 28, 2014, defendants filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court, seeking review of the due process issue, and requested that the petition be held and resolved in the same manner as the Duke, Walker, and Brown cases, also pending before the United States Supreme Court. On June 9, 2014, the United States Supreme Court denied the petitions seeking review. On June 19, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco made a payment of $1,659,674 to satisfy the final judgment awarding compensatory damages plus post judgment interest, trial level attorneys’ fees and costs, and Florida Supreme Court fees. The Court entered an order confirming satisfaction of judgment on July 24, 2014. In June 2013, the First District Court of Appeal determined that plaintiff was entitled to attorneys’ fees in connection with the appeal to the First District Court of Appeal and directed the trial court to determine the amount. As of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not determined the amount. • In Alexander v. Lorillard Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Miami-Dade County, Florida) the jury awarded plaintiff $20,000,000 in compensatory damages and $25,000,000 in punitive damages in February and March 2012. Lorillard Tobacco is the only defendant in this case. The jury apportioned 20% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker and 80% to Lorillard Tobacco. In March 2012, the court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determination to the court’s award of compensatory damages, awarding the plaintiff $16,000,000 in compensatory damages and $25,000,000 in punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco. In May 2012, the court granted a motion by Lorillard Tobacco to lower the amount of compensatory damages and reduced the amount awarded to $10,000,000 from Lorillard Tobacco. Other post-trial motions challenging the verdict were denied. The court entered an amended final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determination to the court’s award of compensatory damages, awarding the plaintiff $8,000,000 in compensatory damages and $25,000,000 in punitive damages. The court also awarded plaintiff post-judgment interest (based on a statutory rate) on the compensatory and punitive damages. Lorillard Tobacco noticed an appeal from the amended final judgment to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal. On September 4, 2013, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the amended final judgment awarding compensatory and punitive damages. Lorillard Tobacco’s motion for rehearing of this decision with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal was denied in October 2013. Lorillard Tobacco filed a petition with the Florida Supreme Court seeking review of the intermediate appellate court decision in November 2013, and this petition was denied on September 9, 2014. On September 23, 2014, Lorillard Tobacco made a payment of $38,960,916 to resolve all damages, costs and fees, and post-judgment interest. Plaintiff filed a satisfaction of judgment on September 29, 2014 and the Court confirmed satisfaction of judgment on October 3, 2014. This case is now concluded. • In Calloway v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff and a daughter of the decedent a total of $20,500,000 in compensatory damages in May 2012. The jury apportioned 20.5% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 27% to R.J. Reynolds, 25% to Philip Morris, 18% to Lorillard Tobacco, and 9.5% to Liggett. The jury awarded $12,600,000 in punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco and $42,250,000 from the other defendants, for a total punitive damages award of $54,850,000. In August 2012, the court granted a post-trial motion by the defendants and lowered the compensatory damages award to $16,100,000. The court also ruled that the jury’s finding on the plaintiff’s percentage of comparative fault would not be applied to reduce the compensatory damage award because the jury found in favor of the plaintiff on her claims alleging intentional conduct. In August 2012, the court entered final judgment against defendants in the amount of $16,100,000 in compensatory damages, jointly and severally, and $54,850,000 in punitive damages. Lorillard Tobacco is liable for $12,600,000 of the total punitive damages award. The court also awarded plaintiff post- 20 Table of Contents judgment interest (based on a statutory rate) on the compensatory and punitive damages, which totaled approximately $2.0 million as of February 6, 2015 based on the jury-apportioned fault for Lorillard Tobacco. The final judgment also granted plaintiff’s application for trial court costs and attorneys’ fees, but as of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not awarded an amount. Defendants have noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. On March 31, 2014, plaintiff filed a motion with the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal seeking attorneys’ fees in connection with the appeal to the Fourth District. As of February 6, 2015, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal had not ruled on this motion. • In Evers v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, Hillsborough County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff and the estate of the decedent a total of $3,230,000 in compensatory damages in February 2013. The jury apportioned 31% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 60% to R.J. Reynolds and 9% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury found that punitive damages against Lorillard Tobacco were not warranted and awarded $12,362,042 in punitive damages from R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. The Court granted a post-trial motion by R.J. Reynolds for a directed verdict on punitive damages and, as a result, the jury’s punitive damages award was set aside. The Court denied a motion filed by the plaintiff to reconsider the directed verdict. At a post-trial hearing, the plaintiff waived entitlement to the jury’s loss of services award which amounted to $280,000 of the total compensatory damages award. In May 2013, the court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations and awarded plaintiff and the estate of the decedent $2,035,500 in compensatory damages ($265,500 from Lorillard Tobacco), plus the statutory rate of interest. Plaintiff and defendants have both appealed the final judgment to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal. Plaintiff also filed a motion for entitlement to trial attorneys’ fees and costs. As of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not ruled on this motion. On May 23, 2014, plaintiff filed a motion with the Florida Second District Court of Appeal seeking attorneys’ fees in connection with the appeal to the Second District. As of February 6, 2015, the Florida Second District Court of Appeal had not ruled on this motion. • In Cohen v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff and the estate of the decedent a total of $2,055,050 in compensatory damages in May 2013. The jury apportioned 40% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 30% to R.J. Reynolds, 20% to Lorillard Tobacco, and 10% to Liggett. The jury found that punitive damages were not warranted against any of the defendants. On May 6, 2013, the Court entered final judgment against defendants in the amount of $1,233,030 ($411,010 from Lorillard Tobacco) plus 4.75% annual interest. On July 10, 2013, the Court entered an order granting defendants’ motion for a new trial based on the plaintiff’s improper arguments during closing. This order effectively vacated the final judgment. Plaintiff and defendants have both appealed the order granting the motion for new trial to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. • In Ruffo v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Miami-Dade County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff $1,500,000 in compensatory damages in May 2013. The jury apportioned 85% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 12% to Philip Morris, and 3% to Lorillard Tobacco. Defendants’ post-trial motions challenging the verdict were denied. On October 4, 2013, the Court entered a final judgment against defendants that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations and awarded plaintiff $225,000 in compensatory damages ($45,000 from Lorillard Tobacco) plus the statutory rate of interest, which is currently 4.75%. Defendants noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal. On May 12, 2014, the trial court entered an order confirming that Lorillard Tobacco had satisfied the judgment awarding compensatory damages and post-judgment interest for an amount totaling $46,857.43. On May 9, 2014, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal entered an order recognizing Lorillard Tobacco’s voluntary dismissal of their appeal to the final judgment. On November 19, 2014, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment as to Philip Morris. Plaintiff filed a motion with the trial court seeking entitlement to attorneys’ costs and fees. In April 2014, the trial court 21 Table of Contents denied this motion. Plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal from the order denying attorneys’ fees and costs. On November 19, 2014, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s order denying attorneys’ fees and costs. • In Gafney v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $5,800,000 in compensatory damages in September 2013. The jury apportioned 34% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 33% to R.J. Reynolds, and 33% to Lorillard Tobacco. Lorillard, Inc. was also a defendant in this trial but damages and comparative fault were not assessed separately for Lorillard, Inc. Because the jury found in favor of the defendants on the claims alleging intentional conduct, the plaintiff was not entitled to punitive damages. On September 26, 2013, the Court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations and awarded the plaintiff a total of $3,828,000 in compensatory damages ($1,914,000 from Lorillard Tobacco), plus the statutory rate of interest. Defendants’ post-trial motions challenging the verdict were denied in November 2013. Defendants have noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. Plaintiff has filed a motion with the trial court seeking entitlement to attorneys’ fees and costs. As of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not ruled on this motion. On January 13, 2015, plaintiff filed a motion with the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal seeking attorneys’ fees in connection with the appeal to the Fourth District. As of February 6, 2015, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal had not ruled on this motion. • In Jacobson v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Federal Court, Southern District, Miami, Florida), the jury returned a verdict in favor of the defendants on October 29, 2013. The Court entered final judgment in favor of the defendants on October 30, 2013. Plaintiff filed a motion for new trial which was denied in January 2014. On February 10, 2014, the Court entered an order granting Lorillard’s motion for attorneys’ fees and costs. Lorillard has agreed not to enforce its right to fees and costs in exchange for plaintiff’s agreement not to pursue an appeal of the verdict. This case is concluded. • In Chamberlain v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Federal Court, Middle District, Jacksonville, Florida) the jury returned a verdict in favor of the defendants on November 15, 2013. The Court entered final judgment in favor of the defendants on November 20, 2013. Plaintiff’s motion for new trial was denied on April 25, 2014. On June 27, 2014, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal from the final judgment with the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. On December 3, 2014, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the appeal from the final judgment, ruling that the filing date was past the deadline to appeal. • In Burkhart v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Federal Court, Middle District, Jacksonville, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $5,000,000 in compensatory damages on May 15, 2014. The jury apportioned 50% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 25% to R.J. Reynolds, 15% to Philip Morris, and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco. The jury awarded $500,000 in punitive damages from Lorillard Tobacco and $2,000,000 from the other defendants for a total punitive damages award of $2,500,000. The Court ruled that the jury’s finding on the plaintiff’s percentage of comparative fault would not be applied to reduce the compensatory damage award because the jury found in favor of the plaintiff on her claims alleging intentional conduct. On June 11, 2014, the Court entered a final judgment against defendants in the amount of $5,000,000 in compensatory damages, jointly and severally, and $2,500,000 ($500,000 from Lorillard Tobacco) in punitive damages, plus the statutory rate of interest. The Court denied defendants post-trial motions challenging the verdict. On October 10, 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal from the final judgment with the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The final judgment also granted plaintiff entitlement to trial court costs, but as of February 6, 2015, the trial court had not awarded an amount. Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees and prevailing party costs was denied. • In Harris v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Federal Court, Middle District, Jacksonville, Florida), on July 31, 2014, the jury found that one of the smoker’s alleged Engle qualifying diseases did not manifest prior to the cut-off period for membership in the Engle class, and that the smoker’s 22 Table of Contents other alleged Engle qualifying disease was not caused by the smoker’s addiction to cigarettes containing nicotine. However, the jury awarded compensatory damages on plaintiff’s survival and wrongful death claims in the total amount of $1,726,650. The jury apportioned 60% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 15% to Philip Morris, 15% to R.J. Reynolds, and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco, in connection with plaintiff’s survival claims. The jury apportioned 70% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 10% to Philip Morris, 10% to R.J. Reynolds, and 10% to Lorillard Tobacco, in connection with plaintiff’s wrongful death claims. Because the jury found in favor of the defendants on the claims alleging intentional conduct, the plaintiff was not entitled to punitive damages. On August 13, 2014, defendants filed a motion for entry of judgment in favor of all defendants, arguing that the jury’s findings establish that the smoker was not an Engle class member. On December 17, 2014, the Court denied defendants’ motion. On December 18, 2014, the Court entered final judgment, awarding $1,726,650 in compensatory damages in a lump sum against all defendants. The jury’s comparative fault determinations were not applied despite the jury’s finding in favor of the defendants on the claims alleging intentional conduct. On January 15, 2015, defendants filed additional post-trial motions challenging the verdict and the final judgment. Plaintiff does not oppose applying the jury’s comparative fault determination to the final judgment. On January 2, 2015, the plaintiff filed a motion for attorneys’ fees and costs, which defendants have opposed. As of February 6, 2015, the Court had not ruled on this motion. • In Irimi v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Seventeenth Judicial Circuit, Broward County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $3,123,437 in compensatory damages on August 28, 2014. The jury apportioned 70% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 14.5% to Lorillard Tobacco, 14.5% to R.J. Reynolds, and 1% to Liggett. Because the jury found in favor of the defendants on the claims alleging intentional conduct, the plaintiff was not entitled to punitive damages. Defendants filed post-trial motions challenging the verdict and plaintiff filed a motion for a new trial on the issue of entitlement to punitive damages. On December 18, 2014, the Court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations and awarded the plaintiff a total of $937,031 in compensatory damages ($452,898 from Lorillard Tobacco), plus the statutory rate of interest. On January 27, 2015, the Court entered an order granting defendants’ motion for a new trial based on improper jury selection procedures, which effectively vacates the final judgment. Plaintiff filed a motion for rehearing on February 4, 2015. • In Lourie v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Thirteenth Judicial Circuit, Hillsborough County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff and a son of the decedent a total of $1,371,549 in compensatory damages on October 10, 2014. The jury apportioned 63% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 27% to Philip Morris, 7% to Lorillard Tobacco, and 3% to R.J. Reynolds. The jury found that punitive damages were not warranted against any of the defendants. The Court denied defendants’ post-trial motions challenging the verdict. On November 6, 2014, the Court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations and awarded plaintiff and a son of the decedent a total of $507,473 in compensatory damages ($96,008 from Lorillard Tobacco), plus the statutory rate of interest. Defendants have noticed an appeal from the final judgment to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal. On November 10, 2014, plaintiff filed a motion for attorneys’ fees and costs. As of February 6, 2015, the Court had not ruled on this motion. • In Perrotto v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, et al. (Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida), the jury awarded plaintiff a total of $4,087,339 in compensatory damages on November 21, 2014. The jury apportioned 49% of the fault for the smoker’s injuries to the smoker, 25% to Philip Morris, 20% to R.J. Reynolds, 6% to Lorillard Tobacco, and 0% to Liggett. Because the jury found in favor of the defendants on the claims alleging intentional conduct, the plaintiff was not entitled to punitive damages. On December 4, 2014, the Court entered a final judgment that applied the jury’s comparative fault determinations and awarded the plaintiff a total of $2,084,545 in compensatory damages ($245,240 from Lorillard Tobacco), plus the statutory rate of interest. Defendants have filed post-trial motions challenging the verdict, and the plaintiff has filed a post-trial motion seeking a new trial on entitlement to punitive damages. Plaintiff also filed a motion for 23 Table of Contents attorneys’ fees and costs. As of February 6, 2015, the Court had not ruled on these motions. On December 31, 2014, the plaintiff filed a petition with the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal seeking to disqualify the trial judge from further consideration of this case. Since the Florida Supreme Court issued its 2006 ruling, through February 6, 2015, verdicts have been returned in 132 Engle Progeny Cases in which neither Lorillard Tobacco nor Lorillard, Inc. were defendants. Juries awarded compensatory damages and punitive damages in 44 of these trials. In 43 of those 44 trials, the amount of punitive damages awarded totaled approximately $862.1 million and ranged from $20,000 to $244 million. In July 2014, punitive damages of $23.6 billion were awarded in one of these cases. In that case, the Court granted in part a post-trial motion filed by the defendant and reduced the punitive damages to approximately $17 million. As of February 6, 2015, this award was subject to challenge through post-trial motions and the appellate process. In 35 of the trials, juries awarded only compensatory damages. In the 51 other trials, juries found in favor of the defendants. In some of the trials decided in the defendants’ favor, plaintiffs have filed motions challenging the verdicts and in some cases, appeals from final judgments are pending before various Florida circuit and intermediate appellate courts. As of February 6, 2015, one verdict in favor of the defendants has been reversed on appeal and returned to the trial court for a new trial on all issues. It is not possible to predict the final outcome of this litigation. Various intermediate state and federal Florida appellate courts have issued rulings that address the scope of the preclusive effect of the findings from the first phase of the Engle trial, including whether those findings relieve plaintiffs from the burden of proving certain legal elements of their claims. The Florida Supreme Court granted review in the Douglas case, in which a verdict awarding compensatory damages to the plaintiff was affirmed by an intermediate state Florida appellate court, to address the issue of whether a tobacco manufacturer’s due process rights are violated by reliance upon the Engle Phase I findings. On March 14, 2013, the Florida Supreme Court ruled that application of the Engle Phase I findings to establish certain elements of plaintiffs’ claims is not a violation of the Engle defendants’ due process rights. In order to prevail on either strict liability or negligence claims, the Court found that plaintiffs must establish (i) membership in the Engle class; (ii) that addiction to smoking the Engle defendants’ cigarettes containing nicotine was a legal cause of the injuries alleged and (iii) damages. On August 12, 2013, defendants filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court seeking review of the Florida Supreme Court’s decision. This petition for review was denied on October 7, 2013. The due process issue was also on appeal in the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in two cases that had been consolidated for appeal: Duke and Walker. On September 6, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Court affirmed the verdicts in these cases, holding that the judgment of the Florida Supreme Court in Douglas should be given full faith and credit, and that deference to the decision in Douglas does not violate the due process rights of the defendant. The defendant filed a petition for rehearing of the decision in Duke and Walker with the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit in October 2013. On October 31, 2013, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit vacated and reconsidered its original opinion. The Court entered a new opinion that is substantively similar to the first with the exception that the Court now discusses giving full faith and credit to the Engle decision, as interpreted in Douglas. On November 7, 2013, the Court denied defendant’s petition for rehearing. On November 7, 2013, the defendant filed a second petition seeking review of the October 31, 2013 opinion. On January 6, 2014, the Court denied this petition. On March 28, 2014, the defendant in Duke and Walker filed a petition with the United States Supreme Court seeking to answer the question of whether the Engle Phase I findings can be applied to establish certain elements of plaintiffs’ claims. On the same date, defendants filed similar petitions in the Brown case (an appeal from a Florida state court trial), as well as in eight other state court cases, including two cases in which Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant (Mrozek and Sury). The defendants requested that these petitions be held pending disposition of the Duke, Walker, and Brown cases, and resolved in a similar manner. On June 9, 2014, the United States Supreme Court declined to accept review of the Duke, Walker, and Brown cases. On the same date, the United States Supreme Court declined to accept review of the eight other state court cases, including Mrozek and Sury, discussed above. 24 Table of Contents In connection with the Engle Progeny Cases, Lorillard and various other tobacco manufacturing defendants face various legal issues that could materially affect the outcome of the Engle cases. These legal issues include, but are not limited to, the application of the statute of limitations and statute of repose, the ability of an Engle plaintiff to pursue a claim against defendants that did not manufacture or market the cigarettes plaintiff smoked, the constitutionality of a cap on the amount of a bond necessary to obtain an automatic stay of a post-trial judgment, whether Engle class members may pursue an award of punitive damages based on claims of negligence or strict liability, and whether a judgment based on a claim of intentional conduct should be reduced by a jury’s findings on comparative fault. Various intermediate Florida appellate courts and Florida Federal Courts have issued rulings on these issues. In certain cases, trial courts have entered final judgments that define defendants’ liability as joint and several. Four of these judgments have been affirmed by intermediate Florida appellate courts, including one case in which Lorillard Tobacco was a defendant. In such cases, Lorillard Tobacco may face the risk of liability for the entire amount of the judgment even if a percentage of fault was allocated to other defendants, in the event that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment. Also, the presumptive respective share of each joint and several judgment debtor is pro rata, and not proportional to the amount of fault attributable to each defendant by the jury. As a result, Lorillard Tobacco under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any judgment-related amount. The judgment entered in the U.S. Government Case, while not final in all respects, could restrict or limit our defenses in other litigation. In August 2006, a final judgment and remedial order was entered in United States of America v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999). The court based its final judgment and remedial order on the government’s only remaining claims, which were based on the defendants’ alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”). Lorillard, Inc. is not a party to this matter, but Lorillard Tobacco is one of the defendants in the case. Although the verdict did not award monetary damages to the plaintiff, the final judgment and remedial order imposed a number of requirements on the defendants. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, the publishing of corrective statements by defendants related to the health effects of smoking. In 2009, a three-judge panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit upheld substantially all of the District Court’s final judgment and remedial order. In June 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the parties’ petitions seeking review of the case. The case was remanded to the District Court, for implementation of the Court of Appeals’ directions in its 2009 ruling and for entry of an amended final judgment. As of February 6, 2015, the District Court had not entered the amended final judgment addressing all of the directions from the Court of Appeals, although, as described above, it had entered its order setting forth the language of the corrective statements and the consent order regarding implementation of the corrective statements. Defendants’ appeal from the orders regarding the corrective statements is pending. The 2006 final judgment and remedial order made many adverse findings regarding the conduct of the defendants. It is possible that the final opinion, final judgment and remedial order entered by the court could form the basis of allegations by the plaintiffs in other matters, or of additional judicial findings by other courts against cigarette manufacturers. It is possible that other courts could apply the findings in the United States of America case to restrict or otherwise limit our defenses in other litigation. A ruling by the United States Supreme Court could limit the ability of cigarette manufacturers to contend that certain claims asserted against them in product liability litigation are barred. The Supreme Court’s decision also could encourage litigation involving cigarettes labeled as “lights” or “low tar.” In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision that neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade Commission’s regulation of cigarettes’ tar and nicotine 25 Table of Contents disclosures preempts (or bars) some of plaintiffs’ claims. The decision also more broadly addresses the scope of preemption based on the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, and could significantly limit cigarette manufacturers’ arguments that certain of plaintiffs’ other claims in smoking and health litigation, including claims based on the alleged concealment of information with respect to the hazards of smoking, are preempted. In addition, the Supreme Court’s ruling could encourage litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us, regarding the sale of cigarettes labeled as “lights” or “low tar,” and it may limit cigarette manufacturers’ ability to defend such claims. The Supreme Court issued this ruling in a purported “lights” class action, Good v. Altria Group, Inc. We were not a defendant in Good. The U.S. Surgeon General has issued reports regarding the risks of cigarette smoking to non-smokers that could result in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, additional restrictions placed on the use of cigarettes, and additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. In a report entitled “The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General, 2006,” the U.S. Surgeon General summarized conclusions from previous Surgeon General’s reports concerning the health risks to non-smokers from exposure to ETS, also called second-hand smoke. According to this report, scientific evidence supported six major conclusions: • Second-hand smoke causes premature death and disease in children and in adults who do not smoke. • Children exposed to second-hand smoke are at an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory infections and ear problems. • Exposure of adults to second-hand smoke has immediate adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and causes heart disease and lung cancer. • The scientific evidence indicates that there is no risk-free level of exposure to second-hand smoke. • Many millions of Americans, both children and adults, are exposed to second-hand smoke in their homes and workplaces. • Eliminating smoking in indoor spaces fully protects non-smokers from exposure to second-hand smoke. Separating smokers from non-smokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings cannot eliminate exposures of non-smokers to second-hand smoke. The Surgeon General also addressed the health risks to non-smokers from exposure to ETS in the 2010 Surgeon General Report and in the 2014 Surgeon General Report. These reports could form the basis of additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The reports have been and in the future could be used to support litigation against us or other cigarette manufacturers. It also is possible that the Surgeon General’s report could result in additional restrictions placed on cigarette smoking or in additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. It is possible that such additional restrictions or regulations could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States, including sales of our brands. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have substantial payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements which will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and operating income in future periods. In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris, RJR Tobacco and Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation (now an affiliate of RJR Tobacco) (the “Original Participating Manufacturers”) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the “Initial State Settlements” and, together with the MSA, are referred to as the “State Settlement Agreements).” 26 Table of Contents Under the State Settlement Agreements, we paid $1.364 billion in 2014 and estimate that we will pay between $1.450 billion and $1.500 billion in 2015, primarily based on 2014 estimated industry volume. Annual payments under the State Settlement Agreements are required to be paid in perpetuity and are based, among other things, on our domestic market share and unit volume of domestic shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding the year in which payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. Amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements are impacted by a number of factors, including industry volume, market share and industry operating profits. In the fourth quarter 2011, RAI, the parent of RJR Tobacco, announced a change to a mark-to-market pension accounting method. Such method of accounting for pension and postretirement benefits results in the recognition of actuarial gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets or benefit obligations in the year it is incurred to the extent such gains and losses are in excess of 10% of the greater of the fair value of the plan assets or the plan’s benefit obligation, referred to as the corridor, rather than amortized over the average future service period of the active employees in such plans. As a result of the change to mark-to-market pension accounting announced by RAI, the industry operating profits as defined in the State Settlement Agreements may be impacted positively or negatively in any given year. For example, in 2012 and 2014 RAI’s mark-to-market pension adjustment resulted in $8 million and $11 million reductions in our obligations under the State Settlement Agreements, respectively. It is possible that our State Settlement Agreement obligations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected by RAI’s mark-to-market adjustments or other factors impacting industry operating profits in the future. We are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of certain material pending litigation. We record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements, the U.S. Government Case and certain Engle Progeny Cases, as described above, while it is reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any material pending litigation against us, (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any material pending litigation due to the many variables, uncertainties and complexities surrounding pending litigation, and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for possible losses related to material pending litigation. It is possible that our results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarterly or annual period or our financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending or future litigation or an inability to secure bonds where required to stay the execution of judgments on appeal. We may not be able to develop, produce or commercialize competitive new products and technologies required by regulatory changes or changes in consumer preferences. Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely to require us to introduce new products or make substantial changes to existing products. For example, all 50 states and the District of Columbia require cigarette manufacturers to reduce the ignition propensity of their products. We believe that there may be increasing pressure from public health authorities to develop a conventional cigarette, an alternative cigarette or an alternative tobacco product that provides a demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. Certain of the other major cigarette makers have already developed and marketed alternative cigarette products. We may not be able to develop a reduced risk or reduced exposure product that the FDA allows to be marketed or is acceptable to consumers. In addition, the costs associated with developing any such new products and technologies could be substantial. 27 Table of Contents We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors’ introduction of low-priced products or innovative products, increased competitive discounting and other promotional activity, higher excise taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate cigarette products. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco. We also compete against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. If our major competitors were to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, we could respond by increasing price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Electronic cigarettes, having been recently introduced to market, are at an early stage of development and are evolving rapidly. Competition in the electronic cigarette industry is intense. We compete with many companies in the market for electronic cigarettes and the nature of our competitors is varied as the market is highly fragmented and the barriers to entry into the business are low. For instance, our competitors include large companies, such as Philip Morris and RJR Tobacco, as well as smaller companies with similar product offerings. The method of distribution for many competing companies is predominately over the internet, with only a small number of competitors currently having a significant presence at retail. Our future sales and any future profits in our electronic cigarette business are substantially dependent upon the acceptance and use of electronic cigarettes by adult smokers. Our ability to generate future sales will be dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the pricing of competing products, overall demand for our products, changes in consumer preferences, market competition and government regulation. We may not be able to adapt as the electronic cigarette industry and customer demand evolves, whether attributable to regulatory constraints or requirements or our failure to respond in a timely and/or effective manner to new technologies, customer preferences, changing market conditions or new developments in our industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business. We are subject to important limitations on advertising and marketing cigarettes that could harm our competitive position. Television and radio advertisements of cigarettes have been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, we generally cannot use billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of concerts, non-tobacco merchandise bearing Lorillard’s brand names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In addition, the MSA prohibits the targeting of youth in advertising, promotion or marketing of cigarettes. Accordingly, we have determined not to advertise our cigarettes in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. In June 2009, the federal Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was enacted granting authority over the regulation of cigarettes to the FDA. Pursuant to the FSPTCA, the FDA reissued a set of marketing and sales restrictions originally promulgated in 1995 as part of an unsuccessful effort by the agency to assert jurisdiction over cigarettes. The FSPTCA contains other restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sale of cigarette products more stringent than those found in the original FDA rule. In addition, many states, cities and counties have enacted legislation or regulations further restricting tobacco advertising, marketing and sales promotions, and others may do so in the future. Additional restrictions may be imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations may make it difficult to maintain the value of an existing brand if sales or market share decline for any reason. Moreover, these limitations significantly impair the ability of cigarette manufacturers, including us, to launch new premium brands. 28 Table of Contents The potential regulation of electronic cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration and other regulatory agencies may materially adversely affect our electronic cigarette business. On April 25, 2014, the FDA released proposed rules that would extend its regulatory authority to electronic cigarettes and certain other tobacco products under the FSPTCA. We preliminarily note that the proposed rules would require that electronic cigarette manufacturers (i) register with the FDA and report electronic cigarette product and ingredient listings; (ii) market new electronic cigarette products only after FDA review; (iii) only make direct and implied claims of reduced risk if the FDA confirms that scientific evidence supports the claim and that marketing the electronic cigarette product will benefit public health as a whole; (iv) not distribute free samples; (v) implement minimum age and identification restrictions to prevent sales to individuals under age 18; (vi) include health warnings; and (vii) not sell electronic cigarettes in vending machines, unless in a facility that never admits youth. The proposed regulation was subject to a 75-day public comment period, which was extended by the FDA to August 8, 2014, following which the FDA was to finalize the proposed regulation. On August 7, 2014, Lorillard filed comments to the proposed rules. It is not known how long this regulatory process to finalize and implement the rules may take. Accordingly, although we cannot predict the content of any final rules of the proposed or future regulation or the impact they may have, if enacted they could have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business. In the European Union (“EU”), the Tobacco Products Directive (“TPD”) regulates the content, manufacture, marketing and labeling of tobacco products. An amendment of the TPD was adopted, and became effective in May of 2014, which provides for detailed premarket notification requirements for electronic cigarettes and places certain classes of electronic cigarettes under the authority of medicinals regulations in EU member states. The Tobacco Products Directive must be transposed into national legislation by member states by May 20, 2016. Depending on the TPD implementation at a national level, certain sales and marketing restrictions on electronic cigarettes may be applicable in the United Kingdom, and this could result in a decrease in sales of our electronic cigarettes in the United Kingdom and have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business in the future. Changes in laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the regulation of our business by the FDA, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected by new or future legal requirements imposed by federal, state, local and foreign legislative or regulatory initiatives, including but not limited to those relating to health care reform, climate change and environmental matters. For example, the health care reform legislation, which was signed into law in March 2010, resulted in the repeal of $2 million of future tax deductions for Medicare Part D subsidies for our retiree drug benefits and could impact our accounting for retiree medical benefits, employer-sponsored medical plans and related matters in future periods. However, the extent of that impact, if any, cannot be determined until regulations are promulgated and additional interpretations of the health care law are available. In addition, blu (U.K.) is based in the United Kingdom and we manufacture electronic cigarettes in Asia, which may present unique challenges and increase our exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations, including compliance with the legal requirements imposed by foreign legislative or regulatory initiatives. New legislation or regulations may result in increased costs directly for our compliance or indirectly to the extent such requirements increase the prices of goods and services because of increased costs or reduced availability. We cannot predict whether such legislative or regulatory initiatives will result in significant changes to existing laws and regulations and/or whether any changes in such laws or regulations will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Sales of cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes, which could be extended to electronic cigarettes. The federal excise tax on cigarettes was last increased on April 1, 2009 from $0.39 per pack to $1.0066 per pack to finance health insurance for children. The President’s fiscal year 2016 federal budget plan included a 29 Table of Contents proposal to further increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.94 per pack to fund early childhood education. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.17 to $6.16 per pack of cigarettes. Various states and localities have raised the excise tax on cigarettes substantially in recent years. During 2014, there were two state excise tax increases, $0.13 per pack implemented in the state of Oregon and $0.13 per pack implemented in the state of Vermont, as well as municipal excise tax increases that included a $2.00 per pack increase in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a $0.50 per pack increase in the City of Chicago, Illinois and a $0.04 per pack excise tax increase in the District of Columbia. It is our expectation that several states will propose further increases in 2015 and in subsequent years. We believe that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. In addition, we believe that the 2009 increase in the federal excise tax, and possible future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, compounded by poor economic conditions, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward lower priced discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. Presently the sale of electronic cigarettes is not subject to federal, state and local excise taxes to the same extent as the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products, all of which have faced significant increases in the amount of taxes collected on their sales. Should any excise taxes be broadly imposed on electronic cigarettes similar to those levied against cigarettes and other tobacco products, such imposition of taxes may have a material adverse effect on the demand for our electronic cigarettes, as consumers may be unwilling to pay the increased costs. We are dependent on the domestic cigarette business, which we expect to continue to contract. Although we conduct business in Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, our cigarette business in the 50 states of the United States (the “domestic cigarette market”) is currently our only significant business and has generally been contracting. We do not have foreign cigarette sales that could offset these effects, as we sold the international rights to substantially all of our cigarette brands, including Newport, in 1977. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, industry-wide domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound annual rate of approximately 3.9% during the period 2004 through 2014. Industry-wide domestic cigarette shipments decreased by an estimated 3.2% for 2014 compared to 2013, 4.6% for 2013 compared to 2012 and 2.3% for 2012 compared to 2011. We expect the domestic cigarette market to continue to contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We derive most of our revenue from one brand. Our largest selling brand, Newport, accounted for approximately 86.5% of our consolidated net sales for 2014. Our principal strategic plan revolves around the marketing and sales promotion in support of the Newport brand. We cannot ensure that we will continue to successfully implement our strategic plan with respect to Newport or that implementation of our strategic plan will result in the maintenance, growth or profitability of the Newport brand. The use of significant amounts of promotion expenses and sales incentives in response to competitive actions and market price sensitivity may have a material adverse impact on our business. Since 1998, the cigarette market has been increasingly price competitive due to the impact of, among other things, higher state and local excise taxes and the market share of deep discount brands. In response to these and other competitor actions and pricing pressures, we have engaged in the significant use of promotions and sales incentives. The cost of these measures could have a material adverse impact on our business. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an 30 Table of Contents effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, unit sales volume and sales promotion costs in any period are not necessarily indicative of sales and costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. We rely on a limited number of key executives and may continue to experience difficulty in attracting and hiring qualified new personnel in some areas of our business. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business. As a tobacco company, we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified executives and other personnel in some areas of our business. This difficulty is primarily attributable to the health and social issues associated with the tobacco industry. The loss of services of any key personnel or our inability to attract and hire personnel with requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products, enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products or manage our business effectively. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Increased restrictions on the sale and/or use of cigarettes and electronic cigarettes in public places could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. In recent years, states and many local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, in the United States have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict, or discourage the sale, marketing and/or use of cigarettes and electronic cigarettes; the use of cigarettes and electronic cigarettes in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars; and smoking on airline flights and in the workplace. In addition, smoking in virtually all enclosed public places and workplaces is now prohibited by law throughout the United Kingdom. Other similar laws and regulations are currently under consideration and may be enacted by state and local governments in the United States or in the United Kingdom in the future. Although we have no empirical evidence of the effect of such restrictions, we believe that restrictions on smoking in public and other places may lead to a decrease in the number of people who smoke or a decrease in the number of cigarettes smoked by smokers. Increased restrictions on smoking in public and other places may have caused a decrease, and may continue to cause a decrease in the volume of cigarettes that would otherwise be sold by us absent such restrictions, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. At present, several local governments have considered and, in some cases imposed, similar restrictions on the use of electronic cigarettes. Should foreign, federal, state, local or municipal governments, agencies or regulators or private industry likewise restrict the sale, marketing and/or use of electronic cigarettes in public and other places, such restrictions may lead to a similar decrease in the volume of electronic cigarettes that would otherwise be sold by us absent such restrictions, which may have an adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business. Our business may face additional international governmental actions aimed at cigarettes and other tobacco products. There are a number of international regulatory developments relating to cigarettes that could impact our domestic cigarette business and/or our electronic cigarette business. The tobacco industry expects significant regulatory developments to take place over the next few years, driven principally by the World Health Organization’s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (“FCTC”), which entered into force in February 2005. As of February 6, 2015, 177 countries, including the United Kingdom, have become parties to the FCTC. While the United States is a signatory of the FCTC, it is not currently a party to the agreement, as the agreement has not been submitted to, or ratified by, the United States Senate. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty on tobacco and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. Regulatory initiatives that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include: • the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges; • restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship; • the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements; 31 Table of Contents • restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging; • restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents levels; • requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients; • increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors; • elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and • encouraging litigation against tobacco companies. If electronic cigarettes are subject to one or more significant regulatory initiatives enacted under the FCTC, our electronic cigarette business could be materially and adversely affected. Electronic cigarettes are not generally recognized as less harmful than cigarettes at this time. Notwithstanding the potential harm reduction attributes of electronic cigarettes, the public health community is split on whether electronic cigarettes are less harmful than cigarettes. In addition, many public health advocates believe that electronic cigarettes provide a gateway to the normalization of smoking. Because long-term clinical studies about the safety and efficacy of electronic cigarettes will likely be required to address these public health concerns and a robust body of science on electronic cigarettes emissions is not available at this time, legislative, regulatory and other efforts to limit the sale, marketing and use of electronic cigarettes may continue or accelerate, which could have a material adverse effect on our electronic cigarette business. Expanding our operations internationally poses additional risks to our business. We are primarily engaged in business activities in the United States, but we do engage in certain international business activities, primarily related to electronic cigarettes, and are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as the U. S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, U.K. Bribery Act and other laws prohibiting bribery and corruption. We operate our blu (U.K.) business and market its products in the United Kingdom and manufacture our electronic cigarettes in Asia. Our business or financial performance may be adversely affected due to the risks of doing business internationally, including but not limited to the following: economic and political instability; supply chain disruptions; unfavorable changes in tariffs or export and import restrictions; and failure to comply with foreign laws and regulations. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to disruption of our electronic cigarette business, significant expenditures and/or damage to our reputation, and could harm our reputation or have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. We rely on a single manufacturing facility for the production of our cigarettes. We produce all of our traditional cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing facility. If our manufacturing plant is damaged, destroyed or incapacitated or we are otherwise unable to operate our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to produce cigarettes and may be unable to meet customer demand which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of our leaf tobacco and reconstituted tobacco. We purchased approximately 80%, 86% and 90% of our leaf tobacco from 3, 4 and 4 suppliers in 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. If these suppliers become unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we 32 Table of Contents believe that leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to these suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our future profits. In addition, we purchase all of our reconstituted tobacco from one supplier, which is an affiliate of RAI, one of our major competitors. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper-like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. If RAI becomes unwilling or unable to supply us and we are unable to find an alternative supplier on a timely basis, our operations could be disrupted resulting in lower production levels and reduced sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. The availability of counterfeit cigarettes could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. Sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States, including counterfeits of our Newport brand, could adversely impact sales by the manufacturers of the brands that are counterfeited and potentially damage the value and reputation of those brands. Additionally, smokers who mistake counterfeit cigarettes for our cigarettes may attribute quality and taste deficiencies in the counterfeit product to our brands and discontinue purchasing our brands. Although we do not believe that sales of counterfeit Newport cigarettes have had a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits to date, the availability of counterfeit Newport cigarettes together with the potential regulation of cigarettes and their ingredients, substantial increases in excise taxes and other potential price increases could result in increased demand for counterfeit product that could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to maintain and further build brand recognition is dependent on the continued and exclusive use of our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the unique features of our tobacco products. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are ineffective, thereby permitting a third- party to misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from growing or maintaining market share. Our business could be materially adversely affected by any failure, interruption or security lapse of our information technology systems. Our ability to effectively manage our business depends significantly on our information systems. The failure of our current systems, or future upgrades, to operate effectively or to integrate with other systems, could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, disrupting our business. In addition, cybersecurity threats are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, denial of service attacks and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Although we have in place various processes, procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate these threats, there can be no assurance that these will be sufficient to prevent a material security threat. If any of these events were to materialize, they could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of sensitive information or damage to our reputation, and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. 33 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: • elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how our shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our board with time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to prevent such takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in our best interests and those of our shareholders. The Separation Agreement between us and Loews contains provisions that may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. The tax-free nature of the Separation may be affected by certain transactions undertaken by us. In particular, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Separation would become taxable to Loews if it was determined that 50% or more of the shares of our Common Stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. If, as a result of acquisitions of our Common Stock subsequent to the Separation, the Separation becomes taxable pursuant to Section 355(e), Loews would recognize a substantial gain for tax purposes as the Separation would be treated as a sale of Lorillard for federal income tax purposes. The Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loews’s fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential acquirer obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. These restrictions and potential indemnification obligations may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. We are required to indemnify Loews against losses and other expenses incurred at any time (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation) with respect to our assets, properties and businesses. In the Separation Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, litigation matters and other claims) based on, arising out of or resulting from, among other things, the ownership or the operation of us and our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of us and our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation). If Loews incurs legal or other fees or costs and expenses resulting from the operation of our businesses or otherwise with respect to us, we are required to reimburse Loews for such losses and any legal or other fees related thereto, which could be substantial. These indemnification obligations may discourage third parties from trying to acquire us because our indemnification obligations are binding on our successors and we are prohibited by the Separation Agreement from merging, consolidating or transferring all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, 34 Table of Contents transferee or successor agrees to be bound by these indemnification obligations. In addition, we could face substantial charges for indemnification payments to Loews, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We do not believe the Separation has altered or will alter our legal exposure with respect to tobacco-related claims. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 