ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risks. This list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected.If we fail to develop and timely deliver innovative technologies and services in response to changes in the technology and entertainment industries, our business could decline.The markets for our products, services and technologies are characterized by rapid change and technological evolution. We will need to continue to expend considerable resources on research and development in the future in order to continue to design and deliver enduring, innovative entertainment products, services and technologies. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to develop timely and effectively market new products, technologies and services that adequately or competitively address the needs of the changing marketplace. In addition, we may not correctly identify new or changing market trends at an early enough stage to capitalize on market opportunities. At times, such changes can be dramatic, as were the shift from VHS videocassettes to DVDs for consumer playback of movies in homes and elsewhere and the transition from packaged media to internet distribution. Our future success depends to a great extent on our ability to develop and timely deliver innovative technologies that are widely adopted in response to changes in the technology and entertainment industries and that are compatible with the technologies, services or products introduced by other entertainment industry participants. Despite our efforts and investments in developing new products, services and technologies:•we cannot assure you that the level of funding and significant resources we are committing for investments in new products, services and technologies will be sufficient or result in successful new products, services or technologies; •we cannot assure you that our newly developed products, services or technologies can be successfully protected as proprietary intellectual property ("IP") rights or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others; •we cannot assure you that any new products or services that we develop will achieve market acceptance; •our products, services and technologies may become obsolete due to rapid advancements in technology and changes in consumer preferences;•we cannot assure you that revenue from new products, services or technologies will offset any decline in revenue from our products, services and technologies which may become obsolete; and •our competitors and/or potential customers may develop products, services or technologies similar to those developed by us, resulting in a reduction in the potential demand for our newly developed products, services or technologies. Our failure to successfully develop new and improved products, services and technologies, including as a result of any of the risks described above, may reduce our future growth and profitability and may adversely affect our business, results and financial condition.Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we do, which could reduce demand for our products or services or render them obsolete and if competition increases or if we are unable to effectively compete with existing or new competitors, the result could be price reductions, fewer customers and loss of market share, any of which could result in less revenue and harm our business.Our IPGs face competition from companies that produce and market program guides as well as television schedule information in a variety of formats, including passive and interactive on-screen electronic guide services, online listings, over the top applications, printed television guides in newspapers and weekly publications, and local cable television guides.Our IPG products also compete against customers and potential customers who choose to build their own IPG, including both those who do and those who don't elect to license our patents. We believe that our set-top box digital-to-analog copy protection, DVD digital-to-analog copy protection and videocassette copy protection systems currently have limited competition. It is possible, however, that alternative copy protection technologies could become competitive. Additionally, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of these areas. It is also possible that the overall demand for copy protection systems may decline more quickly than anticipated.13Table of ContentsThe markets for the consumer hardware and software products sold by our customers are competitive and price sensitive. Licensing fees for our technologies, products and services, particularly in the physical media, CE and personal computer areas, may decline due to competitive pricing pressures and changing consumer demands. In addition, we may experience pricing pressures in other parts of our business. These trends could make it more difficult for us to increase or maintain our revenue and could adversely affect our operating results. To increase per unit royalties, we must continue to introduce new, highly functional versions of our technologies, products and services for which we can charge higher amounts. Any inability to introduce such technologies, products and services in the future or other declines in the amounts we can charge would also adversely affect our revenues.Some of our current or future competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, may enjoy greater brand recognition than we do, or may have more experience or advantages than we have in the markets in which they compete. Further, many of the consumer hardware and software products that include our technologies also include technologies developed by our competitors. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in product development in order to enhance our technologies and our existing products and services and introduce new high-quality technologies, products and services to meet the wide variety of such competitive pressures. Our ability to generate revenues from our business will suffer if we fail to do so successfully.We generate a significant portion of our revenue from patent license agreements with a small number of major pay TV operators which would lead to substantial revenue loss and possible litigation if not renewed. For the year ended December 31, 2015, 27% of revenue was from our contracts with AT&T Inc. (including DIRECTV), Comcast and Time Warner Cable. In September 2015, our contract with Time Warner Cable was extended to March 2016 and in December 2015, our contract with AT&T (including DIRECTV) was extended to December 2022. Our contract with Comcast expires in March 2016. We cannot assure you that these license agreements will be renewed on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to replace the revenue associated with these agreements through similar or other business arrangements, our revenues and profit margins would decline and our business would be harmed as a result. In 2015, Time Warner Cable signed an agreement to be acquired by Charter Communications. While it is our intent that if the acquisition is completed our license agreement with Charter Communications will govern Time Warner Cable, the timing and structure of the pending acquisition could have a negative impact on licensing discussions and/or revenue. We also cannot assure you that these license agreements will not be terminated under certain circumstances. Additionally, we may become involved in litigation with these licensees in connection with attempting to negotiate new agreements. The existence and/or outcome of such litigation could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the number of cable television, telecommunications television, and digital broadcast satellite subscribers if the availability of OTT content services causes consumers to cancel their pay TV subscriptions.For some of our technologies, we are paid a royalty based on the number of subscribers or set top-boxes our pay TV customers have. The ability to enjoy digital entertainment content downloaded or streamed over the internet has enabled some consumers to cancel their pay TV subscriptions. If our pay TV customers are unable to maintain their subscriber base, the royalties they owe us may decline.Dependence on the cooperation of pay TV operators, television broadcasters, hardware manufacturers, data providers and delivery mechanisms could adversely affect our revenues. We rely on third party providers to deliver our IPG data to some of the CE devices that include our IPG. Further, our national data network provides customized and localized listings to our IPG service for pay TV and licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for pay TV. In addition, we purchase certain Metadata from commercial vendors that we redistribute. The quality, accuracy and timeliness of that Metadata may not continue to meet our standards or be acceptable to consumers. There can be no assurance that commercial vendors will distribute data to us without error or that the agreements that govern some of these relationships can be maintained on favorable economic terms. Technological changes may also impede the ability to distribute Metadata. Our inability to renew these existing arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, or enter into alternative arrangements that allow us to effectively transmit our Metadata to CE devices could have a material adverse effect on our CE IPG and IPG data business.Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for CE devices incorporating our technologies.14Table of ContentsWe derive significant revenues from CE manufacturer license fees for our solutions that are based on the number of units shipped. We do not manufacture hardware, but rather depend on the cooperation of CE manufacturers to incorporate our technologies into their products. Generally, our license agreements do not require manufacturers to include our technology in any specific number or percentage of units, and only some of these agreements guarantee a minimum aggregate license fee. Purchases of new CE devices, including television sets, integrated satellite receiver decoders, DVRs, DVD recorders, personal computers and internet appliances are largely discretionary and may be adversely impacted by increasing market saturation, durability of products in the marketplace, new competing products, alternate consumer entertainment options and general economic trends in the countries or regions in which these products are offered. Economic downturns have in the past, and may in the future, significantly impact demand for such CE devices. As a result, our future operating results may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in sales of CE devices employing our technologies.The decision by manufacturers to incorporate our solutions into their products is a function of what other technologies, products and services are available. Our future operating results may be adversely impacted as a result of CE manufacturers opting not to incorporate our technology into their devices as a result of other available alternatives.We are exposed to risks associated with our changing technology base through strategic acquisitions, investments and divestitures.We have expanded our technology base in the past through strategic acquisitions of companies with complementary technologies or IP and intend to do so in the future. Acquisitions hold special challenges in terms of successful integration of technologies, products, services and employees. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or the benefits of any other acquisitions we have completed or may complete in the future, and we may not be able to incorporate any acquired services, products or technologies with our existing operations, or integrate personnel from the acquired businesses, in which case our business could be harmed.Acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic investments involve numerous risks, including:•problems integrating and divesting the operations, technologies, personnel, services or products over geographically disparate locations; •unanticipated costs, taxes, litigation and other contingent liabilities; •continued liability for pre-closing activities of divested businesses or certain post-closing liabilities which we may agree to assume as part of the transaction in which a particular business is divested; •adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; •cannibalization of revenue as customers may seek multi-product discounts;•risks associated with entering into markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; •incurrence of significant restructuring charges if acquired products or technologies are unsuccessful; •significant diversion of management's attention from our core business and diversion of key employees' time and resources; •licensing, indemnity or other conflicts between existing businesses and acquired businesses;•inability to retain key customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors and other business relations of the acquired business; and •potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization. Financing for future acquisitions may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate for any of our businesses, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business, products, service offerings, technologies or employees into our existing business and operations. Future acquisitions and divestitures may not be well-received by the investment community, which may cause the value of our stock to fall. We cannot ensure that we will be able to identify or complete any acquisition or divestiture in the future. Further, the terms of our indebtedness constrains our ability to make and finance additional acquisitions or divestitures.If we acquire businesses, new products, service offerings or technologies in the future, we may incur significant acquisition-related costs. In addition, we may be required to amortize significant amounts of finite-lived intangible assets and we may record significant amounts of goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets that would be subject to testing for impairment. We have in the past and may in the future be required to write off all or part of the intangible assets or goodwill associated with these investments that could harm our operating results. If we consummate one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration consists of stock or other securities, our existing stockholders' ownership could be significantly diluted. If we were to proceed with one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments. Acquisitions could also cause operating margins to fall depending on the businesses acquired.15Table of ContentsOur strategic investments may involve joint development, joint marketing, or entry into new business ventures, or new technology licensing. Any joint development efforts may not result in the successful introduction of any new products or services by us or a third party, and any joint marketing efforts may not result in increased demand for our products or services. Further, any current or future strategic acquisitions and investments by us may not allow us to enter and compete effectively in new markets or enhance our business in our existing markets and we may have to impair the carrying amount of our investments.Our success is heavily dependent on our proprietary technologies.We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to continue to introduce proprietary solutions for digital content and technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our IP rights. Our patents, trademarks and copyrights may be challenged and invalidated or circumvented. Our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength or be issued in all countries where products or services incorporating our technologies can be sold. We have filed applications to expand our patent claims and for improvement patents to extend the current periods of patent coverage. However, expiration of some of our patents may harm our business. If we are not successful in protecting our IP, our business would be harmed.Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies or design around our patents. Effective IP protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of processes and devices that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies. Such competitive threats could harm our business.We may make patent assertions, or initiate patent infringement or patent interference actions or other litigation to protect our IP, which could be costly and harm our business.We are currently engaged in litigation, and litigation may be necessary in the future, to enforce our patents and other IP rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others.We, and many of our current and potential competitors, dedicate substantial resources to protection and enforcement of IP rights. We believe that companies will continue to take steps to protect their technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. Companies in the technology and content-related industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding IP rights. Disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and their associated rights are likely to arise in the future and we may be forced to litigate to determine the validity and scope of other parties' proprietary rights. Any such litigation is inherently risky, the outcome is uncertain, could be costly, could distract our management from focusing on operating our business, could delay recognition of revenue until a settlement or decision is ultimately reached, could result in the invalidation or adverse claims construction of patents, and might ultimately be unsuccessful. The existence and/or outcome of such litigation could harm our business.In 2014, the Supreme Court of the United States decided the Alice Corp v. CSL Bank International ("Alice") case. The Alice case generally addresses patentable subject matter, and specifically an exception to patentable subject matter for "abstract ideas." In the Alice case, the court provides some general interpretive guidance to be considered when determining whether patent claims are directed to patent-ineligible abstract ideas, along with a two-step test for determining patentable subject matter eligibility going-forward. Practically, the effects of the Alice decision are still being assessed by patent holders, attorneys, the United States Patent & Trademark Office and various courts, all of which are attempting to determine the appropriate analysis and boundaries of the Alice decision on other patents. In any event, the Alice decision will provide potential licensees and accused infringers of certain patents - including our patents - new arguments to challenge the validity of such patents, which could cause some delays or risk in pending or future patent negotiations or litigation.Additionally, the relationships with our customers, suppliers and technology collaborators may be disrupted or terminated as a result of patent assertions that we may make against them, which could harm our business.Finally, adverse legal rulings could result in the invalidation of our patents, the narrowing of the claims of our patents, or fostering of the perception by licensees or potential licensees that a judicial finding of their infringement is unlikely. Such results or perceptions could decrease the likelihood that licensees or potential licensees may be interested in licensing our patents, or could decrease the amounts of license fees that they are willing to pay, which could harm our business.16Table of ContentsLegislative initiatives seeking to, or judicial or regulatory decisions that, weaken patent protection or copyright law, or new governmental regulation or new interpretation of existing laws that cause resulting legal uncertainties could harm our business.The standards that courts use to interpret patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and may evolve, particularly as new technologies develop. For example, the Supreme Court of the United States has modified some legal standards applied by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in examination of U.S. patent applications, which may decrease the likelihood that we will be able to obtain patents and may increase the likelihood of challenges to patents we obtain or license. Additionally, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the "Leahy-Smith Act") includes a number of significant changes to the U.S. patent laws, such as, among other things, changing from a "first to invent" to a "first inventor to file" system, establishing new procedures for challenging patents and establishing different methods for invalidating patents. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is still in the process of implementing regulations relating to these changes, and the courts have yet to address many of the new provisions of the Leahy-Smith Act. Some of these changes or potential changes may not be advantageous to the Company, and it may become more difficult to obtain adequate patent protection or to enforce the Company's patents against third parties. While the Company cannot predict the impact of the Leahy-Smith Act at this time, these changes or potential changes could increase the costs and uncertainties surrounding the prosecution of the Company's patent applications and adversely affect the Company's ability to protect its IP.Consumer rights advocates and other constituencies also continuously challenge copyright law, notably the DMCA, through both legislative and judicial actions. Legal uncertainties surrounding the application of the DMCA may adversely affect our business. If copyright law is compromised, or devices that can circumvent our technology are permitted by law and become prevalent, this could result in reduced demand for our technologies, and our business would be harmed.Many laws and regulations are pending and may be adopted in the U.S., individual states and local jurisdictions and other countries with respect to the internet. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including IP rights, digital rights management, property ownership and taxation. These types of regulations are likely to differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions. Other countries and political organizations are likely to impose or favor more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the U.S., thus furthering the complexity of regulations. In addition, state and local governments may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or stricter than federal regulations. Changes to or the interpretation of these laws could increase our costs, expose us to increased litigation risk, substantial defense costs and other liabilities or require us or our customers to change business practices. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and the adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, could materially and adversely affect our business.We may not be able to join standards bodies, license technologies or integrate with platforms that are necessary or helpful to our product or services businesses because of the encumbrances that the proposed associated agreements place on our patents.Standards bodies often require, as a condition of joining such bodies, that potential members license, agree to license, disclose or place other burdens on their patents. Similarly, technology licensors and platform operators often require that licensees cross license, or agree not to assert, their patents. In order to develop, provide or distribute certain products or services, we may find it necessary or helpful to join these standard bodies, license these technologies or contract with these platform operators. However, in order to do so, we might have to sign agreements under which we would have to license or agree not to assert patents without being able to collect royalties or for fees that we believe are less than those that we could otherwise collect. Similarly, these agreements could require us to disclose invention-related information that we would otherwise prefer to keep confidential. This inability to be part of standards bodies, to license certain technologies, or to contract with certain platform operators, could harm our business.We may be subject to IP infringement claims or other litigation, which are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future.From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our internally developed technology, technology we have acquired or technology we license from third parties may infringe other third parties' proprietary rights (especially patents). Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights or other proprietary rights relating to video or music content, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. We have faced such claims in the past, we currently face such claims, and we expect to face similar claims in the future. Regardless of the merits of such claims, any disputes with third parties over IP rights could materially and adversely impact our business, including by resulting in the diversion of management time and attention from our core business, the significant cost to defend ourselves against such claims or reducing the willingness of licensees to 17Table of Contentsincorporate our technologies into their products or services. Additionally, we have been asked by content owners to stop the display or hosting of copyrighted materials by our users or ourselves through our service offerings, including notices provided to us pursuant to the DMCA. We have and will promptly respond to legitimate takedown notices or complaints, including but not limited to those submitted pursuant to the DMCA, notifying us that we are providing unauthorized access to copyrighted content by removing such content and/or any links to such content from our services or products. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that our prompt removal of content, including removal pursuant to the provisions of the DMCA, will prevent disputes with content owners, that infringing content will not exist on our services, or that we will be able to resolve any disputes that may arise with content providers or users regarding such infringing content. If any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions, or stop distributing our products or providing our services while we re-engineer them or seek licenses to necessary technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We could also be subject to claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims made against our customers, other companies with whom we have relationships or the current owners of businesses that we divested, which could increase our defense costs and potential damages. For example, we have received notices and lawsuits from certain customers requesting indemnification in patent-related lawsuits. We evaluate the requests and assess whether we believe we are obligated to provide such indemnification to such customers on a case-by-case basis. Customers or other companies making such requests could become unwilling or hesitant to do business with us if we decline such requests. An adverse determination with respect to such requests or in any of these events described above could require us to change our business practices and have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, these types of disputes can be asserted by our licensees or prospective licensees or by other third parties as part of negotiations with us or in private actions seeking monetary damages or injunctive relief. Any disputes with our licensees or potential licensees or other third parties could harm our reputation and expose us to additional costs and other liabilities.Litigation could harm our business and result in:•Substantial expenditures for legal fees and costs to defend the Company and/or our customers;•substantial settlement, damage awards or related costs, including indemnification of customers; •diversion of management and technical resources to help defend the Company, including as part of pre-trial discovery; •either our customers discontinuing to use or ourselves discontinuing to sell infringing products or services; •our expending significant resources to develop and implement non-infringing technology; and •our obtaining, or being required to obtain, licenses to infringed technology, which could be costly or unavailable. We are involved in the business of powering the discovery and enjoyment of digital entertainment, including over the internet. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, an increasing level of litigation to determine the applicability of current laws to, and impact of new technologies on, the use and distribution of content over the internet and through new devices. As we develop products and services that protect, provide or enable the provision of content in such ways, the risk of litigation against us may increase.Our ability to maintain and enforce our trademark rights has a large impact on our ability to prevent third party infringement of our brand and technologies and if we are unable to maintain and strengthen our brands, our business could be harmed.Maintaining and strengthening our brands is important to maintaining and expanding our business, as well as to our ability to enter into new markets for our technologies, products and services. If we fail to promote and maintain these brands successfully, our ability to sustain and expand our business and enter into new markets may suffer. Because we engage in relatively little direct brand advertising, the promotion of our brand depends, among other things, on hardware device manufacturing companies and service providers displaying our trademarks on their products. If these companies choose for any reason not to display our trademarks on their products, or if these companies use our trademarks incorrectly or in an unauthorized manner, the strength of our brand may be diluted or our ability to maintain or increase our brand awareness may be harmed. We generally rely on enforcing our trademark rights to prevent unauthorized use of our brand and technologies. Our ability to prevent unauthorized uses of our brand and technologies would be negatively impacted if our trademark registrations were overturned in the jurisdictions where we do business. We also have trademark applications pending in a number of jurisdictions that may not ultimately be granted, or if granted, may be challenged or invalidated, in which case we would be unable to prevent unauthorized use of our brand and logo in such jurisdiction. We have not filed trademark registrations in all jurisdictions where our brand and logo are used.18Table of ContentsWe may be subject to legal liability for the provision of third-party products, services, content or advertising.We periodically enter into arrangements to offer third-party products, services, content or advertising under our brands or in connection with our various products or service offerings. For example, we license or incorporate certain entertainment Metadata into our data offerings. Certain of these arrangements involve enabling the distribution of digital content owned by third parties, which may subject us to third party claims related to such products, services, content or advertising, including defamation, violation of privacy laws, misappropriation of publicity rights and infringement of intellectual property rights. We require users of our services to agree to terms of use that prohibit, among other things, the posting of content that violates third party IP rights, or that is obscene, hateful or defamatory. We have implemented procedures to enforce such terms of use on certain of our services, including taking down content that violates our terms of use for which we have received notification, or that we are aware of, and/or blocking access by, or terminating the accounts of, users determined to be repeat violators of our terms of use. Despite these measures, we cannot guarantee that such unauthorized content will not exist on our services, that these procedures will reduce our liability with respect to such unauthorized third party conduct or content, or that we will be able to resolve any disputes that may arise with content providers or users regarding such conduct or content. Our agreements with these parties may not adequately protect us from these potential liabilities. It is also possible that, if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us, including, for example, claims for IP infringement, publicity rights violations or defamation. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even if the claims do not result in liability. If any of these claims results in liability, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business and our operating results.Global economic conditions may impact our business, operating results, financial condition, liquidity or stock price.Uncertainty about global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses postpone spending in response to tighter credit, higher unemployment, financial market volatility, government austerity programs, negative financial news and declines in income or asset values. Additionally, sovereign budget crises among members of the European Union and other countries worldwide have caused increased risk of default to holders of sovereign debt, including commercial banks, and an unprecedented risk about the continuing viability of the Euro as a global currency. These conditions have caused an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. federal government, other foreign governments, central banks and quasi-governmental agencies such as the International Monetary Fund, decreased consumer confidence, overall slower economic activity and extreme volatility in financial markets. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, these macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition or liquidity in a number of ways. For example, if the economic downturn in any region makes it difficult for our customers and suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, they may delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our solutions or reduce production of their products. As many of our solutions are licensed on a per-unit fee basis and the pricing for future flat fee agreements may be predicated on the then most recent unit sales volumes and financial health of our customers, our customers' decision to decrease production of their products or devices, or curtail the offering of their services, may decrease our licensing revenue and adversely impact our operating results.Furthermore, as our customers face a weak economy in various regions of the world, they may not be able to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which could result in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases. If this occurs, our revenue may be reduced, thereby having a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding may increase, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition. We cannot predict the timing or the duration of any economic downturn and we are not immune to the effects of general worldwide economic conditions.In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any repurchases of our common stock or debt we may make in the future). Our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by any global financial crisis. If the banking system or the financial markets deteriorate or remain volatile, the fair value and liquidity of our investment portfolio may be adversely affected.Finally, like other stocks, our stock price can be affected by global economic uncertainties and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn, our stock price could decrease.19Table of ContentsWe have indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position.As of December 31, 2015, we had total debt with a par value of $1,034.5 million, including $689.5 million under our Term Loan Facility B and $345.0 million under our 2020 Convertible Notes. Our Term Loan Facility B is guaranteed by us and certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries and is secured by substantially all of our, the subsidiary guarantors and the co-borrowers' assets. Our indebtedness may:•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; •require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; •limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; •place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and •increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond our control.Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our covenants, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Our Term Loan Facility B contains various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries' ability to, among other things:•incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; •issue redeemable preferred stock; •pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; •make loans, investments and capital expenditures; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; •sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; •enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and •consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our Term Loan Facility B and/or our other indebtedness, which could in turn result a substantial portion of our indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity date. In such event, we may be unable to repay all of the amounts that would become due under our indebtedness. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our Term Loan Facility B could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In any case, if a significant portion of our debt was accelerated, we might be forced to seek bankruptcy protection.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Term Loan Facility B restricts our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to maximize the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due.In addition, borrowings under our Term Loan Facility B are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease.20Table of ContentsRepayment of debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their respective subsidiaries. Rovi Corporation's subsidiaries, including Rovi Solutions Corporation and Rovi Guides, Inc., own a significant portion of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on the 2020 Convertible Notes. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness depends, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by the subsidiaries, including Rovi Solutions Corporation and Rovi Guides, Inc., the senior secured position of their bank debt, and their ability to make cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Because they are not guarantors or a co-issuer of the 2020 Convertible Notes, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on those notes or to make funds available for that purpose. Conversely, the ability of Rovi Solutions Corporation and Rovi Guides, Inc. to repay their indebtedness under our Term Loan Facility B depends, in part, on the generation of cash flow by their respective subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us, Rovi Solutions Corporation or Rovi Guides Inc. to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Distributions from non-U.S. subsidiaries may be subject to foreign withholding taxes and would be subject to U.S. income tax which could reduce the net cash available for principal and interest payments.Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may incur more indebtedness. This could increase the risks associated with our indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our debt do not prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with existing indebtedness, the holders of that indebtedness will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of our existing debt obligations in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify.Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, may adversely affect our effective tax rates.We are subject to U.S. federal, state and foreign income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by changes in the amount of pre-tax income derived from countries with high statutory income tax rates, or by changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities, including changes in our ability to realize our deferred tax assets. Our effective income tax rate could be unfavorably affected by changes in the amount of sales to customers in countries with high withholding tax rates.In addition, U.S. federal, state, and foreign tax jurisdictions may examine our income tax returns, including income tax returns of acquired companies and acquired tax attributes included therein. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. In making such assessments, we exercise judgment in estimating our provision for income taxes. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination from these examinations will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome from these examinations may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with data collection.Many components of our services include interactive components that by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. To provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, and for our analytics business and other businesses, we collect certain information from users. Collection and use of such information may be subject to U.S. federal and state privacy and data collection laws and regulations, standards used by credit card companies applicable to merchants processing credit card details, and foreign laws such as the European Union's Data Protection Directive (which may be added to or amended by the proposed General Data Protection Regulation or other regulations in the future). We may also be subject to third party privacy policies and permissions and obligations we owe to third parties, including, for example, those of pay TV operators. We post our privacy policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data, including that involved in interactions between client and server. Any failure by us to comply with privacy policies or contractual obligations, any failure to comply with standards set by credit card companies relating to privacy or data collection, any failure to conform the privacy policy to changing aspects of our business or applicable law, or any existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could impact our data collection efforts and subject us to fines, litigation or other liability.21Table of ContentsIn addition, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act imposes civil and criminal penalties on persons collecting personal information from children under the age of 13. We do not knowingly distribute harmful materials to minors, direct our websites or services to children under the age of 13, or collect personal information from children under the age of 13. However, we are not able to control the ways in which consumers use our technology, and our technology may be used for purposes that violate this or other similar laws. The manner in which such laws may be interpreted and enforced cannot be fully determined, and future legislation could subject us to liability if we were deemed to be non-compliant.Improper conduct by users could subject us to claims and compliance costs.The terms of use and end-user license agreements for our products and services prohibit a broad range of unlawful or undesirable conduct. However, we are unable to block access in all instances to users who are determined to gain access to our products or services for improper motives. Claims may be threatened or brought against us using various legal theories based on the nature and content of information or media that may be created, posted online or generated by our users or the use of our technology. This risk includes actions by our users to copy or distribute third-party content. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims could be expensive, even if the claims do not ultimately result in liability. In addition, we may incur substantial costs to enforce our terms of use or end-user license agreements and to exclude certain users of our services or products who violate such terms of use or end-user license agreements, or who otherwise engage in unlawful or undesirable conduct.For our business to succeed, we need to attract and retain qualified employees and manage our employee base effectively.Our success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified employees and to manage our employee base effectively. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our future success will depend on our continuing ability to identify, attract, train and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we enter new markets. Competition for people with the skills that we require is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located, and in Southern California where we have significant operations, and the high cost of living in these areas makes our recruiting and compensation costs higher. Moreover, changes in our management or executive leadership team could lead to disruption of our business or distraction of our employees as the organization adapts to such management changes. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, our business and operating results could be adversely affected.Establishing and maintaining licensing relationships with companies are important to build and support a worldwide entertainment technology licensing ecosystem and to expand our business, and failure to do so could harm our business and prospects.Our future success depends on our ability to establish and maintain licensing relationships with companies in related business fields, including:•pay TV operators;•operators of entertainment content distributors, including PPV and VOD networks; •consumer electronics, digital PPV/VOD set-top hardware manufacturers, DVD hardware manufacturers and personal computer manufacturers; •semiconductor and equipment manufacturers; •content rights holders;•retailers and advertisers;•DRM suppliers; and •internet portals and other digital distribution companies. Substantially all of our license agreements are non-exclusive, and therefore our licensees are free to enter into similar agreements with third parties, including our competitors. Our licensees may develop or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors.Some of our third party license arrangements require that we license others' technologies and/or integrate our solutions with others. In addition, we rely on third parties to report usage and volume information to us. Delays, errors or omissions in this information could harm our business. If these third parties choose not to support integration efforts or delay the integration of our solutions, our business could be harmed.If we fail to maintain and expand our relationships with a broad range of participants throughout the entertainment industry, including motion picture studios, broadcasters, pay TV operators and manufacturers of CE products, our business and 22Table of Contentsprospects could be materially harmed. Relationships have historically played an important role in the entertainment industries that we serve. If we fail to maintain and strengthen these relationships, these industry participants may not purchase and use our technologies, which could materially harm our business and prospects. In addition to directly providing a substantial portion of our revenue, these relationships are also critical to our ability to have our technologies adopted. Moreover, if we fail to maintain our relationships, or if we are not able to develop relationships in new markets in which we intend to compete in the future, including markets for new technologies and expanding geographic markets, our business, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if major industry participants form strategic relationships that exclude us, our business and prospects could be materially adversely affected.Because many of our technologies, products and services are designed to comply with industry standards, to the extent we cannot distinguish our technologies, products and services from those sold by our competitors, our current distributors and customers may choose alternate technologies, products and services or choose to purchase them from multiple vendors. We cannot provide any assurance that the industry standards for which we develop new technologies, products and services will allow us to compete effectively with companies possessing greater financial and technological resources than we have to market, promote and exploit sales opportunities as they arise in the future. Technologies, products and services that are designed to comply with standards may also be viewed as interchangeable commodities by certain customers. We may be unable to compete effectively if we cannot produce technologies, products and services more quickly or at lower cost than our competitors. Further, any new technologies, products and services developed may not be introduced in a timely manner or in advance of our competitors' comparable offerings and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues.The markets for our advertising platform may not develop and we may fail in our ability to fully exploit these opportunities if these markets do not develop as we anticipate.The market for interactive television advertising is at an early stage of development and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in our efforts to develop our advertising platform as a medium widely accepted by consumers and advertisers. In addition, pay TV operators who have a patent license from us are not required to provide advertising, although some have. Therefore, our ability to derive advertising revenues from our patent licensees also depends on the implementation of advertising by such licensees.Limitations on control of our IPG Inc. joint venture may adversely impact our operations in Japan.We hold a 46% interest in IPG Inc., as a joint venture with non-affiliated third parties, which hold the remaining interest. As a result of such arrangement, we may be unable to control the operations, strategies and financial decisions of IPG Inc. which could in turn result in limitations on our ability to implement strategies that we may favor, or to cause dividends or distributions to be paid. In addition, our ability to transfer our interests in IPG Inc. may be limited under the joint venture arrangement.Consolidation of the telecommunications, cable and satellite broadcasting industry could adversely affect existing agreements.We have entered into agreements with a large number of pay TV operators for the licensing or distribution of our technology, products and services. If consolidation of the telecommunications, cable and satellite broadcasting industry continues, some of these agreements may be affected by mergers, acquisitions or system swaps which could result in an adverse effect on the amount of revenue we receive under these types of agreements.We have limited control over existing and potential customers' and licensees' decisions to include our technology in their product and service offerings.In general, we are dependent on our customers and licensees to incorporate our technology into their products and services. Although we have license agreements with many of these companies, many of these license agreements do not require any minimum purchase commitments, or are on a non-exclusive basis, or do not require incorporation of our technology in their products and services. If our customers were to determine that the benefits of our technology do not justify the cost of licensing the technology, then demand for our technology would decline. Furthermore, while we may be successful in having one or more industry standards-setting organizations require that our technology be used in order for a product to be compliant with the standards promulgated by such organizations, there is no guarantee that products associated with these standards will 23Table of Contentsbe successful in the market. Our licensees and other manufacturers might not utilize our technology in the future. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed.We are dependent on third parties for Metadata, third party images and content.We distribute, as a revenue generating activity, Metadata. In the future, we may not be able to obtain this content, or may not be able to obtain it on the same terms. Such a failure to obtain the content, or obtain it on the same terms, could damage the attractiveness of our Metadata offerings to our customers, or could increase the costs associated with providing our Metadata offerings, and could thus cause revenues or margins to decrease.Qualifying, certifying and supporting our technologies, products and services is time consuming and expensive.We devote significant time and resources to qualify and support our software products on various personal computer, CE and mobile platforms, including operating systems from Alphabet, Apple and Microsoft. In addition, we maintain high-quality standards for products that incorporate our technologies and products through a quality control certification process. To the extent that any previously qualified, certified and/or supported platform or product is modified or upgraded, or we need to qualify, certify or support a new platform or product, we could be required to expend additional engineering time and resources, which could add significantly to our development expenses and adversely affect our operating results.The success of certain of our solutions depends on the interoperability of our technologies with consumer hardware devices.To be successful we design certain of our solutions to interoperate effectively with a variety of consumer hardware devices, including personal computers, DVD players and recorders, Blu-ray players, digital still cameras, digital camcorders, portable media players, digital TVs, home media centers, set-top boxes, video game consoles, MP3 devices, multi-media storage devices, mobile tablets and smartphones. We depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these devices and the components integrated into these devices, as well as software providers that create the operating systems for such devices, to incorporate certain of our technologies into their product offerings and ensure consistent playback of encoded files. Currently, a limited number of devices are designed to support our technologies. If we are unsuccessful in causing component manufacturers, device manufacturers and software providers to integrate our technologies into their product offerings, our technologies may become less accessible to consumers, which would adversely affect our revenue potential.Some software we provide may be subject to “open source” licenses, which may restrict how we use or distribute our software or require that we release the source code of certain products subject to those licenses.Some of the products we support and some of our proprietary technologies incorporate open source software such as open source codecs that may be subject to the Lesser Gnu Public License or other open source licenses. The Lesser Gnu Public License and other open source licenses may require that source code subject to the license be released or made available to the public. Such open source licenses may mandate that software developed based on source code that is subject to the open source license, or combined in specific ways with such open source software, become subject to the open source license. We take steps to ensure that proprietary software we do not wish to disclose is not combined with, or does not incorporate, open source software in ways that would require such proprietary software to be subject to an open source license. However, few courts have interpreted the Lesser Gnu Public License or other open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. We often take steps to disclose source code for which disclosure is required under an open source license, but it is possible that we have or will make mistakes in doing so, which could negatively impact our brand or our adoption in the community, or could expose us to additional liability. In addition, we rely on multiple software programmers to design our proprietary products and technologies. Although we take steps to ensure that our programmers (both internal and outsourced) do not include open source software in products and technologies we intend to keep proprietary, we cannot be certain that open source software is not incorporated into products and technologies we intend to keep proprietary. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, or are intentionally released under an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the relevant portions of our source code, which could reduce or eliminate our ability to commercialize our products and technologies. Also, in relying on multiple software programmers to design products and technologies that we intend, or ultimately end up releasing in the open source community, we may discover that one or multiple such programmers have included code or language that would be embarrassing to us, which could negatively impact our brand or our adoption in the community, or could expose us to additional liability.24Table of ContentsOur revenue levels or rate of revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis may fluctuate, which may cause us to not be able to sustain our operating results, which may cause our common stock price to decline.Our revenues, expenses and operating results could vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied on as indications of future performance. We may not be able to sustain our revenue levels, or our rate of revenue growth, on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, we may be required to delay or extend recognition of revenue on more complex licensing arrangements as required under generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. Fluctuations in our operating results have in the past caused, and may in the future cause, the price of our common stock to decline.Other factors that could affect our operating results include:•the acceptance of our technologies by pay TV operators and CE manufacturers; •expenses related to, and the financial impact of, possible acquisitions of other businesses and the integration of such businesses; •expenses related to, and the financial impact of, the dispositions of businesses, including post-closing indemnification obligations; •the timing and ability of signing high-value licensing agreements during a specific period; •the extent to which new content technologies or formats replace technologies to which our solutions are targeted;•the pace at which our analog and older products sales decline compared to the pace at which our digital and new product revenues grow, and •adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the U.S. or other major economies in which we do business as a result of the threat of terrorism, military actions taken by the U.S. or its allies, or generally weak and uncertain economic and industry conditions. Our operating results may also fluctuate depending on when we receive royalty reports from certain licensees. We recognize a portion of our license revenue only after we receive royalty reports from our licensees regarding the manufacture of their products that incorporate our technologies. As a result, the timing of our revenue is dependent on the timing of our receipt of those reports, some of which are not delivered until late in the reporting period or after the end of the reporting period. In addition, it is not uncommon for royalty reports to include corrective or retroactive royalties that cover extended periods of time. Furthermore, there have been times in the past when we have deferred an unusually large amount of licensing revenue from a licensee in a given reporting period because not all of the revenue recognition criteria were met. The subsequent satisfaction of the revenue recognition criteria can result in a large amount of licensing revenue from a licensee being recorded in a given reporting period that is not necessarily indicative of the amounts of licensing revenue to be received from that licensee in future reporting periods, thus causing fluctuations in our operating results.A significant portion of our revenue is derived from international sales. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with our international business or failure to manage our global operations effectively could have an adverse effect on our operating results.As of December 31, 2015, we had two major locations (defined as a location with more than 50 employees) and employed approximately 330 employees outside the U.S. We face challenges inherent in efficiently managing employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, controls, policies, benefits and compliance programs. Our inability to successfully manage our global organization could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.We expect that international and export sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our future growth will depend to a large extent on worldwide acceptance and deployment of our solutions.To the extent that foreign governments impose restrictions on importation of programming, technology or components from the U.S., the demand for our solutions in these markets could diminish. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our IP rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S., which increases the risk of unauthorized use of our technologies. Such laws also may not be conducive to copyright protection of digital content, which may make our content protection technology less effective and reduce the demand for it.Because we sell our products and services worldwide, our business is subject to the risks associated with conducting business internationally, including:•foreign government regulation; •changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; 25Table of Contents•changes in, or imposition of, foreign laws and regulatory requirements and the costs of complying with such laws (including consumer and data protection laws); •changes in, or weakening of copyright and IP (patent) laws; •difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions or difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology; •import and export restrictions and duties, including tariffs, quotas or taxes and other trade barriers and restrictions; •fluctuations in our effective income tax rate driven by changes in the pre-tax profits that we derive from international sources, as well as changes in tax laws in jurisdictions in which we have a presence; •changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic condition, including changes resulting from the threat of terrorism; •difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, including compliance with laws governing labor and employment; and •fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our business could be materially adversely affected if foreign markets do not continue to develop, if we do not receive additional orders to supply our technologies, products or services for use by foreign pay TV operators, CE manufacturers and PPV/VOD providers or if regulations governing our international businesses change. Any changes to the statutes or the regulations with respect to export of encryption technologies could require us to redesign our products or technologies or prevent us from selling our products and licensing our technologies internationally.We face risks with respect to conducting business in China due to China's historically limited recognition and enforcement of intellectual property and contractual rights and because of certain political, economic and social uncertainties relating to China.We have direct license relationships with many consumer hardware device manufacturers located in China and a number of the electronics companies that license our technologies utilize captive or third-party manufacturing facilities located in China. We expect consumer hardware device manufacturing in China to continue to increase due to its lower manufacturing cost structure as compared to other industrialized countries. As a result, we face additional risks in China, in large part due to China's historically limited recognition and enforcement of contractual and IP rights. In particular, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, problems with China-based consumer hardware device manufacturers underreporting or failing to report shipments of their products that incorporate our technologies, or incorporating our technologies or trademarks into their products without our authorization or without paying us licensing fees. We may also experience difficulty enforcing our IP rights in China, where IP rights are not as respected as they are in the U.S., Japan and Europe. Unauthorized use of our technologies and IP rights by China-based consumer hardware device manufacturers may dilute or undermine the strength of our brands. If we cannot adequately monitor the use of our technologies by China-based consumer hardware device manufacturers, or enforce our IP rights in China, our revenue could be adversely affected.We have made and expect to make significant investments in infrastructure which, if ineffective, may adversely affect our business results.We have made and expect to make significant investments in infrastructure, tools, systems, technologies and content, including initiatives relating to digital asset and rights management, cloud-based systems and technologies and data warehouses, aimed to create, assist in the development or operation of, or enhance our ability to deliver innovative products and services across multiple media, digital and emerging platforms. These investments may ultimately cost more than is anticipated, their implementation may take longer than expected and they may not meaningfully contribute to or result in successful new or enhanced products, services or technologies.Some terms of our agreements with licensees could be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect licensing revenue under those agreements.Some of our license agreements contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another licensee on more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing licensees. We have entered into a number of license agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. These agreements may obligate us to provide different, more favorable, terms to licensees, which could, if applied, result in lower revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation terms included in our license agreements, these contracts are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.26Table of ContentsChanges in the nature or level of customer support we provide customers of our technology, product and service offerings could cause us to defer the recognition of revenue, which could adversely impact our short-term operating results. Our technologies, products and services contain advanced features and functionality that may require us to increase the levels of, or revise the nature of, our end user support. Our customers may also require us to provide various benefits over longer service terms. To the extent that we offer a greater degree of customer support and ongoing services, we may be required to defer a greater percentage of revenues into future periods, which could harm short-term operating results.Our products and services could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could result in lost revenues, liability or delayed or limited market acceptance.We develop and offer complex solutions, which we license and otherwise provide to customers. The performance of these solutions typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. Due to the complexity of these products and services, and despite our quality assurance testing, the products may contain undetected defects or errors that may affect the proper use or application of such products or services by the customer. Because our products and services are embedded in digital content and other software, or rely on stable transmissions, our solutions' performance could unintentionally jeopardize our customers' product performance. Any such defects, errors, or unintended performance problems in existing or new products or services, and any inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner, could result in loss of revenue or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs and increased service costs, any of which could materially harm our business.In addition, we rely on customers, third party replicators, bandwidth providers and other distributors to properly use and distribute our products and services and to protect the software and applications to which our technology may be applied. Any improper distribution, use or application of the services or software by customers, bandwidth providers or other distributors, or third party replicators may render our technologies useless and result in losses or claims.Because customers rely on our products and services as used in their software and applications, defects or errors in our products or services may discourage customers from purchasing our products or services. These defects or errors could also result in product liability, service level agreement claims or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from these claims through warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability clauses in our agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Furthermore, although we maintain errors and omissions insurance, this insurance may not adequately cover these claims. If a court refused to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, our business could be materially harmed.In protecting copyrights and other intellectual property rights of our customers, our products affect consumer use of our customers' products. Consumers may view this negatively and discontinue or threaten to discontinue purchase or use of our customers' products unless our customers stop using our technologies. This may cause a decline in demand for our products or legal actions against us by our customers or consumers.Government regulations may adversely affect our business.The satellite transmission, cable and telecommunications industries are subject to pervasive federal regulation, including FCC licensing and other requirements. These industries are also often subject to extensive regulation by local and state authorities. While these regulations do not apply directly to us, they affect cable television providers and other multi-channel video programming distributors ("MVPDs"), which are the primary customers for certain of our products and services. Although FCC regulations no longer prohibit MVPDs (except DBS providers) from deploying navigation devices (e.g., set-top boxes) with combined security and non-security functions acquired after July 1, 2007 (the “integration ban”), further developments with respect to these issues or other related FCC action could impact the availability and/or demand for “plug and play” devices, including set-top boxes, all of which could affect demand for IPGs incorporated in set-top boxes or CE devices and correspondingly affect our license fees. The FCC has granted a number of requests for waiver of the integration ban, and denied several petitions for waivers or deferrals. Petitions for reconsideration of the decisions denying waivers are pending before the FCC. 27Table of ContentsBusiness interruptions could adversely affect our future operating results.The provision of certain of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of communications and transmission systems and mechanisms, including satellite, cable, wire, internet, over the air broadcast communications and transmission systems and mechanisms. These communication and transmission systems and mechanisms are subject to significant risks and any damage to or failure of these systems and mechanisms could result in an interruption of the provision of our products and services.Several of our major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. The majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our principal information technology systems, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster that disrupts our business. The communications and transmission systems and mechanisms that we depend on are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities.Our systems and networks are subject to security and stability risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability.Online business activities depend on the ability to store and transmit confidential information and licensed IP securely on our systems, third party systems and over private, hybrid and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to store or transmit such information and data securely or reliably, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could harm our business. Storage and online transmissions are subject to a number of security and stability risks, including:•our own or licensed encryption and authentication technology, or access or security procedures, may be compromised, breached or otherwise be insufficient to ensure the security of customer information or IP; •we could experience unauthorized access, computer viruses, system interference or destruction, “denial of service” attacks and other disruptive problems, whether intentional or accidental, that may inhibit or prevent access to our websites or use of our products and services, or cause customer information or other sensitive information to be disclosed to a perpetrator, others or the general public; •someone could circumvent our security measures and misappropriate our, our business relations or customers' proprietary information or content or interrupt operations, or jeopardize our licensing arrangements, many of which are contingent on our sustaining appropriate security protections; •our computer systems could fail and lead to service interruptions or downtime for television or other guidance systems, or websites, which may include e-commerce websites; •we could inadvertently disclose customer information; or•we may need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, and expose us to litigation or liability. Because some of our technologies and businesses are intended to inhibit use of or restrict access to our customers' IP, we may become the target of hackers or other persons whose use of or access to our customers' IP is affected by our technologies. Also, hackers may, for financial gain or other motives, seek to infiltrate or damage our systems, or obtain sensitive business information or customer information. We also may be exposed to customer claims, or other liability, in connection with any security breach or inadvertent disclosure. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, hacker attacks or system malfunctions or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, attacks or failures. Our product and service offerings rely on a variety of systems, networks and databases, many of which are maintained by us at our data centers. We do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems, and we do not maintain real-time back-up of our data, so in the event of significant system disruption, particularly during peak periods, we could experience loss of data processing capabilities, which could cause us to lose customers and could harm our operating results. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against “down time” for products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In order to provide products and services, we must protect the security of our systems, networks, databases and software.28Table of ContentsIf we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase our operating costs and affect our ability to operate our business.We have a complex business that is international in scope. Ensuring that we have adequate internal controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are continually in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we or our independent registered public accountants identify areas for further attention or improvement, implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. We have in the past identified, and may in the future identify, significant deficiencies in the design and operation of our internal controls, which have been or will in the future need to be remediated. Furthermore, our independent registered public accountants may interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from how we interpret them, or our independent registered public accountants may not be satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which these controls are documented, operated or reviewed in the future. Finally, in the event we make a significant acquisition, or a series of smaller acquisitions, we may face significant challenges in implementing the required processes and procedures in the acquired operations. As a result, our independent registered public accountants may decline or be unable to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or may issue a qualified report in the future. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements.We will incur costs and demands on management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results.We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements, including complying with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. As long as the SEC requires the current level of compliance or more for public companies of our size, we expect these rules and regulations to require significant legal and accounting compliance costs and to make some activities time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers.We may be subject to assessment of sales and other taxes for the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services.We generally do not collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services. Our business would be harmed if one or more states or any foreign country required us to collect sales or other taxes from past or future sales of products, licenses of technology or provision of services, particularly because we may be unable to go back to customers to collect sales taxes for past sales and would likely have to pay such taxes out of our own funds.The price of our common stock may be volatile.The market price of our common stock has been, and in the future could be, significantly affected by factors such as:•actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; •announcements of renewal or termination of major contracts;•announcements of technical innovations; •new products, services or contracts; •announcements by competitors or their customers; •announcements by our customers; •governmental regulatory and copyright action; •developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; •announcements regarding acquisitions or divestitures; •announcements regarding litigation or regulatory matters; •changes in financial estimates or coverage by securities analysts; 29Table of Contents•changes in interest rates which affect the value of our investment portfolio; •changes in tax law or the interpretation of tax laws; and •general market conditions. Announcements by satellite television operators, cable television operators, major content providers or others regarding CE business or pay TV operator combinations, evolving industry standards, consumer rights activists' “wins” in government regulations or the courts, motion picture production or distribution or other developments could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate.There can be no assurance that our historic trading prices, or those of technology companies in general, will be sustained. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, some companies have been named in class action suits.Further, economic uncertainty may adversely affect the global financial markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate.We utilize non-GAAP reporting in our quarterly earnings press releases.As part of our quarterly earnings press releases, we publish measures compiled in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”) as well as non-GAAP financial measures along with a reconciliation between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. The reconciling items have adjusted GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share for certain non-cash, non-operating or non-recurring items and are described in detail in each such quarterly earnings press release. We believe that this presentation may be more meaningful to investors in analyzing the results of operations and income generation as this is how our business is managed. The market price of our stock may fluctuate based on future non-GAAP results if investors base their investment decisions on such non-GAAP financial measures. If we decide to curtail use of non-GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases, the market price of our stock could be affected if investors analyze our performance in a different manner.30Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.