ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected by various risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business If we are unable to continue to enhance existing products and develop and market new products that respond to consumer needs and preferences and achieve market acceptance, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products, and our business and financial results could suffer. Our growth strategy involves the continuous development of innovative high-performance products. We may not be able to compete as effectively with our competitors, and ultimately satisfy the needs and preferences of our customers and the end users of our products, unless we can continue to enhance existing products and develop new, innovative products in the global markets in which we compete. In addition, we must continuously compete not only for end users who purchase our products through the dealers and distributors who are our customers, but also for the original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, which incorporate our products into their mountain bikes and powered vehicles. These OEMs regularly evaluate our products against those of our competitors to determine if they are allowing the OEMs to achieve higher sales and market share on a cost-effective basis. Should one or more of our OEM customers determine that they could achieve overall better financial results by incorporating a competitor’s new or existing product, they would likely do so, which could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Product development requires significant financial, technological and other resources. While we expended approximately $10.4 million, $9.7 million and $9.8 million for our research and development efforts in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, there can be no assurance that this level of investment in research and development will be sufficient in the future to maintain our competitive advantage in product innovation, which could cause our business, financial condition or results of operations to suffer. Product improvements and new product introductions require significant planning, design, development and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing process levels, and we may experience unanticipated delays in our introduction of product improvements or new products. Our competitors’ new products may beat our products to market, be more effective and/or less expensive than our products, obtain better market acceptance or render our products obsolete. Any new products that we develop may not receive market acceptance or otherwise generate any meaningful sales or profits for us relative to our expectations. In addition, one of our competitors could develop an unforeseen and entirely new product or technology that renders our products less desirable or obsolete, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face intense competition in all product lines, including from some competitors that may have greater financial and marketing resources. Failure to compete effectively against competitors would negatively impact our business and operating results. The suspension industry is highly competitive. We compete with a number of other manufacturers that produce and sell suspension products to OEMs and aftermarket dealers and distributors, including OEMs that produce their own line of suspension products for their own use. Our continued success depends on our ability to continue to compete effectively against our competitors, some of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Also, several of our competitors offer broader product lines to OEMs, which they may sell in connection with suspension products as part of a package offering. In the future, our competitors may be able to maintain and grow brand strength and market share more effectively or quickly than we do by anticipating the course of market developments more accurately than we do, developing products that are superior to our products, creating manufacturing or distribution capabilities that are superior to ours, producing similar products at a lower cost than we can or adapting more quickly than we do to new technologies or evolving regulatory, industry or customer requirements, among other possibilities. In addition, we may encounter increased competition if our current competitors broaden their product offerings by beginning to produce additional types of suspension products or through competitor consolidations. We could also face competition from well-capitalized entrants into the high-performance suspension product market, as well as aggressive pricing tactics by other manufacturers trying to gain market share. As a result, our products may not be able to compete successfully with our competitors’ products, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business is sensitive to economic conditions that impact consumer spending. Our suspension products, and the mountain bikes and powered vehicles into which they are incorporated, are discretionary purchases and may be adversely impacted by changes in the economy. Our business depends substantially on global economic and market conditions. In particular, we believe that currently a significant majority of the end users of our products live in the United States and countries in Europe. These areas are either in the process of recovering from recession or, in some cases, are still struggling with recession, disruption in banking and/or financial systems, economic weakness and uncertainty. In addition, our products are recreational in nature and are generally discretionary purchases by consumers. Consumers are usually more willing to make discretionary purchases during periods of favorable general economic conditions and high consumer confidence. Discretionary spending may also be affected by many other factors, including interest rates, 11 Table of Contents the availability of consumer credit, taxes and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. During periods of unfavorable economic conditions, or periods when other negative market factors exist, consumer discretionary spending is typically reduced, which in turn could reduce our product sales and have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. There could also be a number of secondary effects resulting from an economic downturn, such as insolvency of our suppliers resulting in product delays, an inability of our OEM and distributor and dealer customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products, customers delaying payment to us for the purchase of our products due to financial hardship or an increase in bad debt expense. Any of these effects could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to maintain our premium brand image, our business may suffer. Our products are selected by both OEMs and dealers and distributors in part because of the premium brand reputation we hold with them and our end users. Therefore, our success depends on our ability to maintain and build our brand image. We have focused on building our brand through producing products that we believe are innovative, high in performance and highly reliable. In addition, our brand benefits from our strong relationships with our OEM customers and dealers and distributors and through marketing programs aimed at mountain bike and powered vehicle enthusiasts in various media and other channels. For example, we sponsor a number of professional athletes and professional race teams. In order to continue to enhance our brand image, we will need to maintain our position in the suspension products industry and continue to provide high quality products and services. Also, we will need to continue to invest in sponsorships, marketing and public relations. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain or enhance the strength of our brand in the future. Our brand could be adversely impacted by, among other things: • failure to develop new products that are innovative, high-performance and reliable; • internal product quality control issues; • product quality issues on the mountain bikes and powered vehicles on which our products are installed; • product recalls; • high profile component failures (such as a component failure during a race on a mountain bike ridden by an athlete that we sponsor); • negative publicity regarding our sponsored athletes; • high profile injury or death to one of our sponsored athletes; • inconsistent uses of our brand and our other intellectual property assets, as well as failure to protect our intellectual property; and • changes in consumer trends and perceptions. Any adverse impact on our brand could in turn negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are highly dependent on the demand for high-end mountain bikes and their suspension components and a material decline in the demand for these bikes or their suspension components could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Part of our success has been attributable to the growth in the high-end mountain bike industry, including increases in average retail sales prices, as better-performing product designs and technologies have been incorporated into these products. If the popularity of high-end or premium priced mountain bikes does not increase or declines, the number of mountain bike enthusiasts seeking such mountain bikes or premium priced suspension products for their mountain bikes does not increase or declines, or the average price point of these bikes declines, we may fail to achieve future growth or our sales could decrease, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. In addition, if current mountain bike enthusiasts stop purchasing our products due to changes in preferences, we may fail to achieve future growth or our sales could be decreased, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Our growth in the powered vehicle category is dependent upon our continued ability to expand our product sales into powered vehicles that require high-performance suspension and the continued expansion of the market for these powered vehicles. Our growth in the powered vehicle category is in part attributable to the expansion of the market for powered vehicles that require high-performance suspension products. Such market growth includes the creation of new classes of vehicles that need our products, such as Side-by-Sides, and our ability to create products for these vehicles. In the event these markets stopped expanding or 12 Table of Contents contracted, or we are unsuccessful in creating new products for these markets or other competitors successfully enter into these markets, we may fail to achieve future growth or our sales could decrease, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. A disruption in the operations of our manufacturing facilities, including any disruption in connection with moving a majority of the manufacturing of our mountain bike products to Taiwan, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We recently began to transfer a majority of the manufacturing of our mountain bike products to Taiwan. We contemplate that this transition will continue through 2015, at which time we anticipate that the majority of the manufacturing of our mountain bike products will be completed in Taiwan. During our transition process, we will incur some duplication of facilities, equipment and personnel, the amount of which could vary materially from our projections. Also, the transition process could cause manufacturing problems and give rise to execution risks, including disruptions to employees, negative impact on employee morale and retention, delays in recognizing efficiencies or increased costs of manufacturing, and adverse impacts on our product quality and delivery times. In addition, we could encounter unforeseen difficulties resulting from the distance and time zone differences between our main operations in California and our new Taiwan manufacturing facility. Should any of these problems occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Equipment failures, delays in deliveries or catastrophic loss at any of our facilities could lead to production or service disruptions, curtailments or shutdowns. In the event of a stoppage in production or a slowdown in production due to high employee turnover or a labor dispute at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or if we experience delays as a result of events that are beyond our control, delivery times to our customers could be severely affected. If there was a manufacturing disruption in any of our manufacturing facilities, we might be unable to meet product delivery requirements and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected, even if the disruption was covered in whole or in part by our business interruption insurance. Any significant delay in deliveries to our customers could lead to increased returns or cancellations, expose us to damage claims from our customers or damage our brand and, in turn, negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior management, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. We are heavily dependent upon the contributions, talent and leadership of our senior management team, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, Larry L. Enterline. We do not have a “key person” life insurance policy on Mr. Enterline or any other key employees. We believe that the top eight members of our senior management team are key to establishing our focus and executing our corporate strategies as they have extensive knowledge of our systems and processes. Given our senior management team’s knowledge of the suspension products industry and the limited number of direct competitors in the industry, we believe that it could be difficult to find replacements should any of the members of our senior management team leave. Our inability to find suitable replacements for any of the members of our senior management team could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on skilled engineers to develop and create our products, and the failure to attract and retain such individuals could adversely affect our business. We rely on skilled and well-trained engineers for the design and production of our products, as well as in our research and development functions. Competition for such individuals is intense, particularly in Silicon Valley near where our headquarters are located. Our inability to attract or retain qualified employees in our design, production or research and development functions or elsewhere in our company could result in diminished quality of our products and delinquent production schedules, impede our ability to develop new products and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to sustain our past growth or successfully implement our growth strategy, which may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We grew our sales from approximately $197.7 million in 2011 to approximately $272.7 million in 2013. This growth rate may be unsustainable. Our future growth will depend upon various factors, including the strength of our brand image, our ability to continue to produce innovative suspension products, consumer acceptance of our products, competitive conditions in the marketplace, the growth in emerging markets for products requiring high-end suspension products and, in general, the continued growth of the high-end mountain bike and powered vehicle markets into which we sell our products. Our beliefs regarding the future growth of markets for high-end suspension products are based largely on qualitative judgments and limited sources and may not be reliable. If we are unable to sustain our past growth or successfully implement our growth strategy, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. The professional athletes and race teams who use our products are an important aspect of our brand image. The loss of the support of professional athletes for our products or the inability to attract new professional athletes may harm our business. If our products are not used by current or future professional athletes and race teams, our brand could lose value and our sales could decline. While our sponsorship agreements typically restrict our sponsored athletes and race teams from promoting, endorsing or using competitors’ products that compete directly within our product categories during the term of the sponsorship agreements, we do not typically have long-term contracts with any of the athletes or race teams whom we sponsor. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain our current relationships with these professional athletes and race teams, if these professional athletes and race teams are no longer popular, if our sponsored athletes and race teams fail to have success or if we are unable to continue to attract the endorsement of new professional athletes and race teams in the future, the value of our brand and our sales could decline. We depend on our relationships with dealers and distributors and their ability to sell and service our products. Any disruption in these relationships could harm our sales. We sell our aftermarket products to dealers and distributors, and we depend on their willingness and ability to market and sell our products to consumers and provide customer and product service as needed. We also rely on our dealers and distributors to be knowledgeable about our products and their features. If we are not able to educate our dealers and distributors so that they may effectively sell our products as part of a positive buying experience, or if they fail to implement effective retail sales initiatives, focus selling efforts on our competitors’ products, reduce the quantity of our products that they sell or reduce their operations due to financial difficulties or otherwise, our brand and business could suffer. We do not control our dealers or distributors and many of our contracts allow these entities to offer our competitors’ products. Our competitors may incentivize our dealers and distributors to favor their products. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with a majority of our dealers and distributors, and our dealers and distributors are not obligated to purchase specified amounts of our products. In fact, the majority of our dealers and distributors buy from us on a purchase order basis. Consequently, with little or no notice, many of these dealers and distributors may terminate their relationships with us or materially reduce their purchases of our products. If we were to lose one or more of our dealers or distributors, we would need to obtain a new dealer or distributor to cover the particular location or product line, which may not be possible on favorable terms or at all. Alternatively, we could use our own sales force to replace such a dealer or distributor, but expanding our sales force into new locations takes a significant amount of time and resources and may not be successful. Further, many of our international distribution contracts contain exclusivity arrangements, which may prevent us from replacing or supplementing our current distributors under certain circumstances. We are a supplier in the high-end mountain bike and powered vehicles markets, and our business is dependent in large part on the orders we receive from our OEM customers and from their success. As a supplier to OEM customers, we are dependent in large part on the success of the business of our OEM customers. Model year changes by our OEM customers may adversely impact our sales or cause our sales to vary from quarter to quarter. In addition, losses in market share individually or a decline in the overall market of our OEM customers or the discontinuance by our OEM customers of their products which incorporate our products could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. For example, if our mountain bike producing OEM customers reduce production of their high-end mountain bikes, their orders to us for our products would in turn be reduced, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. A relatively small number of customers account for a substantial portion of our sales. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of these customers or the loss of market share by these customers could have a material adverse impact on us and our results of operations. Sales attributable to our 10 largest OEM customers, which can vary from year to year, collectively accounted for approximately 57%, 56% and 53% of our sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of these OEM customers or the loss of market share by these customers could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we refer to the branded mountain bike OEMs that use our products throughout this document as “our customers,” “our OEM customers” or “our mountain bike OEM customers,” branded mountain bike OEMs often use contract manufacturers to manufacture and assemble their bikes. As a result, even though we typically negotiate price and volume requirements directly with our mountain bike OEM customers, it is the contract manufacturers that frequently place the purchase orders with us and are responsible for paying us (rather than the branded mountain bike OEMs). Giant is an OEM and contract manufacturer used by certain of our mountain bike OEM customers. Sales to Giant accounted for approximately 17%, 13% and 12% of our sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In the event Giant were to experience manufacturing or other problems, or were to fail to pay us, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in decreased gross margins. Foreign currency fluctuations could in the future have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We sell our products inside and outside of the United States in U.S. Dollars. As the majority of our expenses are also in U.S. Dollars, we are somewhat insulated from currency fluctuations. However, some of the OEMs purchasing products from us sell their products in Europe and other foreign markets using the Euro and other foreign currencies. As a result, as the U.S. Dollar appreciates against these foreign currencies, our products will become relatively more expensive for these OEMs. Accordingly, competitive products that our OEM customers can purchase in other currencies may become more attractive and we could lose sales as these OEMs seek to replace our products with cheaper alternatives. In addition, should the U.S. Dollar depreciate significantly, this could have the effect of decreasing our gross margins and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, as we transfer a majority of our manufacturing operations for our mountain bike products to Taiwan, we anticipate that a growing percentage of our expenses will be denominated in the New Taiwan Dollar. Should the New Taiwan Dollar appreciate against the U.S. Dollar, this could have the effect of decreasing our gross margins. 14 Table of Contents Our international operations are exposed to risks associated with conducting business globally. As a result of our international presence, we are exposed to increased risks inherent in conducting business outside of the United States. In addition to foreign currency risks, these risks include: • increased difficulty in protecting our intellectual property rights and trade secrets; • changes in tax laws and the interpretation of those laws; • exposure to local economic conditions; • unexpected government action or changes in legal or regulatory requirements; • geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war and other political uncertainty; • changes in tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions on sales; • the effects of any anti-American sentiments on our brands or sales of our products; • increased difficulty in ensuring compliance by employees, agents and contractors with our policies as well as with the laws of multiple jurisdictions, including but not limited to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, local international environmental, health and safety laws, and increasingly complex regulations relating to the conduct of international commerce; • increased difficulty in controlling and monitoring foreign operations from the United States, including increased difficulty in identifying and recruiting qualified personnel for our foreign operations; and • increased difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations or international sales. An adverse change in any of these conditions could have a negative effect upon our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our sales could be adversely impacted by the disruption or cessation of sales by other bike component manufacturers or if other mountain bike component manufacturers enter into the suspension market. Most of the mountain bikes incorporating our suspension products also utilize products and components manufactured by other mountain bike component manufacturers. If such component manufacturers were to cease selling their products and components on a stand-alone basis, their sales are disrupted, or their competitive market position or reputation is diminished, customers could migrate to competitors that sell both suspension and other complementary mountain bike products which we do not sell. Moreover, such mountain bike component manufacturers could begin manufacturing mountain bike suspension products or bundle their bike components with suspension products manufactured by competitors. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our sales could decrease and our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. We have been and may become subject to intellectual property disputes that could cause us to incur significant costs or pay significant damages or that could prohibit us from selling our products. As we develop new products or attempt to utilize our brands in connection with new products, we seek to avoid infringing the valid patents and other intellectual property rights of our competitors. However, from time to time, third parties have alleged, or may allege in the future, that our products and/or trademarks infringe upon their proprietary rights. We will evaluate any such claims and, where appropriate, may obtain or seek to obtain licenses or other business arrangements. To date, there have been no significant interruptions in our business as a result of any claims of infringement, and we do not hold patent infringement insurance. Any claim, regardless of its merit, could be expensive, time consuming to defend and distract management from our business. Moreover, if our products or brands are found to infringe third-party intellectual property rights, we may be unable to obtain a license to use such technology or associated intellectual property rights on acceptable terms. A court determination that our brands, products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others could result in significant liability and/or require us to make material changes to our products and/or manufacturing processes or preclude our ability to use certain brands. In most circumstances, we are not indemnified for our use of a licensor’s intellectual property, if such intellectual property is found to be infringing. Any of the foregoing results could cause us to, and we could incur substantial costs to, redesign our products or defend legal actions, and such costs could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights, our reputation and sales could be adversely affected. Intellectual property is an important component of our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had 37 patents and had approximately 82 patents pending on file in the U.S. and European Patent offices. Additionally, we have registered or have applied for trademarks and service marks with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and a number of foreign countries, including the marks FOX ®, FOX RACING SHOX ® and REDEFINE YOUR LIMITS ® , to be utilized with certain goods and services. When appropriate, we may from time to time assert our rights against those who infringe on our patents, trademarks and trade dress. We may not, however, be successful in enforcing our patents or asserting trademark, trade name or trade dress protection with respect to our brand names and our product designs, and third parties may seek to oppose or challenge our patents or trademark registrations. Further, these legal efforts may not be successful in reducing sales of suspension products by those infringing. In addition, our pending patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents, and even issued patents may be contested, circumvented or invalidated and may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are unsuccessful, or if a third party misappropriates our rights, this may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, and it may be more difficult for us to successfully challenge the use of our proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. Furthermore, other competitors may be able to successfully produce products which imitate certain of our products without infringing upon any of our patents, trademarks or trade dress. The failure to prevent or limit infringements and imitations, could have a permanent negative impact on the pricing of our products or reduce our product sales and product margins, even if we are ultimately successful in limiting the distribution of a product that infringes our rights, which in turn may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Although we enter into non-disclosure agreements with employees, OEMs, distributors and others to protect our confidential information and trade secrets, we may be unable to prevent such parties from breaching these agreements with us and using our intellectual property in an unauthorized manner. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are unsuccessful, or if a third party misappropriates our rights this may adversely affect our business. Defending our intellectual property rights can be very expensive and time consuming, and there is no assurance that we will be successful. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may manufacture insufficient or excess quantities or our manufacturing costs could increase, which could adversely affect our business. We plan our manufacturing capacity based upon the forecasted demand for our products. In the OEM channel, our forecasts are based in large part on the number of our product specifications for new mountain bikes and powered vehicles and on projections from our OEM customers. In the aftermarket channel, our forecasts are based partially on discussions with our dealers and distributors as well as our own assessment of markets. If we incorrectly forecast demand we may incur capacity issues in our manufacturing plant and supply chain, increased material costs, increased freight costs and additional overtime, all of which in turn adversely impact our cost of sales and our gross margin. For example, due to increased demand for our products beyond what was forecasted, our 2012 production exceeded our budgeted production, which resulted in increased expedited freight costs. The current continuing economic weakness and uncertainty in the United States, Europe and other countries has made, and may continue to make, accurate forecasting particularly challenging. In the future, if actual demand for our products exceeds forecasted demand, the margins on our incremental sales in excess of anticipated sales may be lower due to temporary higher costs, which could result in a decrease in our overall margins. While we generally manufacture our products upon receipt of customer orders, if actual demand is less than the forecasted demand for our products and we have already manufactured the products or committed to purchase materials in support of forecasted demand, we could be forced to hold excess inventories. In short, either excess or insufficient production due to inaccurate forecasting could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Product recalls, and significant product repair and/or replacement due to product warranty costs and claims have had, and in the future could have, a material adverse impact on our business. Unless otherwise required by law, we generally provide a limited warranty for our products for a one or two year period beginning on: (i) in the case of OEM sales, the date the mountain bike or powered vehicle is purchased from an authorized OEM where our product is incorporated as original equipment on the purchased mountain bike or powered vehicle; or (ii) in the case of aftermarket sales, the date the product is originally purchased from an authorized dealer. From time to time, our customers may negotiate for longer or different warranty coverage. In the ordinary course of business, we incur warranty costs and reserve against such costs in our financial statements. However, there is a risk that we could experience higher than expected warranty costs or become aware of an underperforming product. For example, during calendar year 2012, we experienced warranty costs in connection with certain dampers contained in our suspension products that went beyond the normal warranty amounts for which we have typically reserved, causing us to increase our reserves by approximately $1.8 million. We also experienced other warranty related costs in 2012 estimated to be approximately $1.0 million. Future unforeseen product warranty issues could be expensive and could adversely affect our brand image, relationships with our sponsored athletes and race teams and have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be required to or voluntarily participate in recalls involving our products or components if any prove to be defective. In addition to the direct costs of any claim or product recall, any such claim or recall could adversely affect our brand image and have a negative effect on our relationships with our OEMs, sponsored athletes and race teams, or otherwise have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations or have other negative consequences. For example, during calendar year 2013, 16 Table of Contents we initiated a voluntary recall of certain model year 2013 32 and 34 Evolution Series suspension forks having 120mm - 160mm of travel with certain open cartridge dampers manufactured by us between March 1, 2012 and November 30, 2012 (the “Recall”). The total costs we incur as a result of the Recall, including other related costs or claims, could be higher than expected and could adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, the warranty reserve we previously established regarding the dampers used in the forks which are the subject of the Recall may be insufficient to cover the repair related costs we actually incur as a result of the Recall An adverse determination in any material product liability claim against us could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. The use of our products by consumers, often under extreme conditions, exposes us to risks associated with product liability claims. If our products are defective or used incorrectly by our customers, bodily injury, property damage or other injury, including death, may result and could give rise to product liability claims against us, which could adversely affect our brand image or reputation. We have encountered product liability claims in the past and carry product liability insurance to help protect us against the costs of such claims, although our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all losses. Any losses that we may suffer from any liability claims, and the effect that any product liability litigation may have upon the reputation and marketability of our products, may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our 2013 Credit Facility places operating restrictions on us and creates default risks. Our revolving credit facility, dated August 7, 2013, with SunTrust Bank and the other parties thereto (our “ 2013 Credit Facility”), contains covenants that place restrictions on our operating activities. These covenants, among other things, limit our ability to: • pay dividends and make distributions or redeem our stock; • incur additional indebtedness or permit additional encumbrances on our assets; and • make acquisitions or complete mergers or sales of assets, or engage in new businesses. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing or to engage in other business activities, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to comply with the covenants contained in our 2013 Credit Facility, it could constitute an event of default and our lenders could declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If we are unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing our credit facilities, which constitutes substantially all of our assets. Our outstanding indebtedness under our secured credit facility bears interest at a variable rate, which makes us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates and could cause our interest expense to increase and decrease cash available for operations and other purposes. In connection with our initial public offering (the “IPO”), we entered into the 2013 Credit Facility, which consists of a $60.0 million revolving line of credit, a $5.0 million sublimit for swingline loans and a $10.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. Subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions precedent, we have the ability to increase the aggregate revolving loan commitments under the 2013 Credit Facility by an aggregate amount of up to $50.0 million, subject to the agreement of any existing lenders and/or any additional lenders who are providing such increased commitments. Borrowings under the 2013 Credit Facility bear interest on a variable rate which increases and decreases based upon changes in the underlying interest rate and/or our leverage ratio. Any such increases in the interest rate or increases of our borrowings under the 2013 Credit Facility will increase our interest expense. As of December 31, 2013, we had $8.0 million of indebtedness, bearing interest at a variable rate, outstanding under the 2013 Credit Facility. Recent interest rates in the United States have been at historically low levels, and any increase in these rates would increase our interest expense and reduce our funds available for operations and other purposes. Although from time to time we may enter into agreements to hedge a portion of our interest rate exposure, these agreements may be costly and may not protect against all interest rate fluctuations. Accordingly, we may experience material increases in our interest expense as a result of increases in interest rate levels generally. Based on the $8.0 million of variable interest rate indebtedness that was outstanding as of December 31, 2013, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in the interest rate on our variable rate debt would have resulted in an approximately $0.1 million change to our interest expense for fiscal 2013. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to certain risks in our manufacturing and in the testing of our products. As of December 31, 2013, we employed approximately 670 full-time employees worldwide, a large percentage of which work at our manufacturing facilities. Our business involves complex manufacturing processes that can be dangerous to our employees. Although we employ safety procedures in the design and operation of our facilities, there is a risk that an accident or death could occur in one of our facilities. Also, prior to the introduction of new products, our employees test the products under rigorous conditions, which involve the risk of injury or death. Any accident could result in manufacturing or product delays, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify and the cost to defend litigation can be significant. As a result, the costs to defend any action or the potential liability resulting from any such accident or death or arising out of any other litigation, and any negative publicity associated therewith, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our products are subject to extensive United States federal and state, foreign and international safety, environmental, employment practices and other government regulations that may require us to incur expenses or modify product offerings in order to maintain compliance with such regulation, which could have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to safety, environmental, and other laws and regulations promulgated by the United States federal and state governments, as well as foreign and international regulatory authorities. Although we believe that our products, policies and processes comply with applicable safety, environmental, and other standards and related regulations, future regulations may require additional safety standards that would require additional expenses and/or modification of product offerings in order to maintain such compliance. Failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, increased expenses to modify our products and harm to our reputation, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, certain of our customer contracts require us to comply with the standards of voluntary standard-setting organizations, such as the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and European Committee for Standardization (CEN). Failure to comply with the voluntary requirements of such organizations could result in the loss of certain customer contracts, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to employment practice laws and regulations and as such are exposed to litigation risks. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating employment practices, including wage and hour, wrongful termination and discrimination. Complying with such laws and regulations, and defending against allegations of our failure to comply (including meritless allegations), can be expensive and time consuming. We believe that our policies and processes comply with applicable employment standards and related regulations, however, we are subject to risks of litigation by employees and others which might involve allegations of illegal, unfair or inconsistent employment practices, including wage and hour violations and employment discrimination, misclassification of independent contractors as employees, wrongful termination and other concerns, which could require additional expenditures. We are subject to environmental laws and regulation and potential exposure for environmental costs and liabilities. Our operations, facilities and properties are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to health, safety and the protection of the environment. These environmental laws and regulations include those relating to the use, generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and wastes, emissions to air, discharges to waters and the investigation and remediation of contamination. Many of these laws impose strict, retroactive, joint and several liability upon owners and operators of properties, including with respect to environmental matters that occurred prior to the time the party became an owner or operator. In addition, we may have liability with respect to third party sites to which we send waste for disposal. Failure to comply with such laws and regulations can result in significant fines, penalties, costs, liabilities or restrictions on operations that could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. From time to time, we have been involved in administrative or legal proceedings relating to environmental, health or safety matters and have in the past incurred expenditures relating to such matters. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. However, additional environmental issues relating to presently known or unknown matters could give rise to currently unanticipated investigation, assessment or expenditures. Compliance with more stringent laws or regulations, as well as different interpretations of existing laws, more vigorous enforcement by regulators or unanticipated events, could require additional expenditures that may materially affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Federal, state, local, foreign and international laws and regulations relating to land-use, noise and air pollution may have a negative impact on our future sales and results of operations. The products in our powered vehicles line are used in vehicles which are subject to numerous federal, state, local, foreign and international laws and regulations relating to noise and air-pollution. Powered vehicles, and even mountain bikes, have also become 18 Table of Contents subject to laws and regulations prohibiting their use on certain lands and trails. For example, in San Mateo County, California, mountain bikes are not allowed on county trails, and ATV and Side-by-Side riding is not allowed in Zion National Park, among many other national and state parks. In addition, recreational snowmobiling has been restricted in some national parks and federal lands in Canada, the United States and other countries. If more of these laws and regulations are passed and the users of our products lose convenient locations to ride their mountain bikes and powered vehicles, our sales could decrease and our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. Fuel shortages, or high prices for fuel, could have a negative effect on the use of powered vehicles that use our products. Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of the powered vehicles that use our products. There can be no assurance that the supply of these fuels will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and diesel fuel and substantial increases in the price of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our powered vehicle product category in the future, which could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We do not control our suppliers or OEMs, or require them to comply with a formal code of conduct, and actions that they might take could harm our reputation and sales. We do not control our suppliers or OEMs or their labor, environmental or other practices. A violation of labor, environmental or other laws by our suppliers or OEMs, or a failure of these parties to follow generally accepted ethical business practices, could create negative publicity and harm our reputation. In addition, we may be required to seek alternative suppliers or OEMs if these violations or failures were to occur. We do not inspect or audit compliance by our suppliers or OEMs with these laws or practices, and we do not require our suppliers or OEMs or licensees to comply with a formal code of conduct. Any conduct or actions that our suppliers could take could reduce demand for our products, harm our ability to meet demand or harm our reputation, brand image, business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for our materials and component parts for some of our products, and the loss of any of these suppliers or an increase in cost of raw materials could harm our business. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain components. If our current suppliers, in particular the minority of those which are “single-source” suppliers, are unable to timely fulfill orders, or if we are required to transition to other suppliers, we could experience significant production delays or disruption to our business. We define a single-source supplier as a supplier from which we purchase all of a particular raw material or input used in our manufacturing operations, although other suppliers are available from which to purchase the same raw material or input or an equivalent substitute. We do not maintain long term supply contracts with any of our suppliers and instead purchase these components on a purchase order basis. As a result, we cannot force any supplier to sell us the necessary components we use in creating our products and we could face significant supply disruptions should they refuse to do so. In connection with the transfer of a majority of the manufacturing of our mountain bike products to Taiwan, we could experience difficulties locating new qualified suppliers geographically located closer to these facilities. Furthermore, such new suppliers could experience difficulties in providing us with some or all of the materials we require, which could result in disruptions in our manufacturing operations. If we experience difficulties with our suppliers or manufacturing delays caused by our suppliers, whether in connection with our manufacturing operations in the United States or in Taiwan, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, we purchase various raw materials in order to manufacture our products. The main commodity items purchased for production include aluminum, magnesium and steel. Historically, price fluctuations for these components and raw materials have not had a material impact on our business. In the future, however, if we experience material increases in the price of components or raw materials and are unable to pass on those increases to our customers, or there are shortages in the availability of such component parts or raw materials, it could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition to our various single-source suppliers, we also rely on one “sole-source” supplier, Miyaki Corporation, or Miyaki. We define a sole-source supplier as a supplier of a raw material or input for which there is no other supplier of the same product or an equivalent substitute. Miyaki is the exclusive producer of the Kashima coating for our suspension component tubes. As part of our agreement with Miyaki, we have been granted the exclusive right to use the trademark “KASHIMACOAT” on products comprising the aluminum finished parts for suspension components (e.g., tubes) and on related sales and marketing material worldwide, subject to certain exclusions. Although we believe we could obtain other coatings of comparable utility from other sources if necessary, we could no longer obtain this specific Kashima coating or use the trademark “KASHIMACOAT” if Miyaki were to stop supplying us with this coating. The need to replace the Kashima coating could temporarily disrupt our business and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and otherwise adversely impact our business. The SEC has promulgated final rules mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act regarding disclosure of the use of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, known as conflict minerals, in products manufactured by public companies. These new rules require ongoing due diligence to determine whether such minerals originated from the Democratic Republic of Congo (the DRC) or an adjoining country and whether 19 Table of Contents such minerals helped finance the armed conflict in the DRC. Reporting obligations for the rule begin May 31, 2014 and are required annually thereafter. As a new public company, we will be required to comply with the reporting obligations beginning with our fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. There will be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine the origin of conflict minerals in our products. The implementation of these rules and their effect on customer, supplier and/or consumer behavior could adversely affect the sourcing, supply and pricing of materials used in our products. As a result, we may also incur costs with respect to potential changes to products, processes or sources of supply. We may face disqualification as a supplier for customers and reputational challenges if the due diligence procedures we implement do not enable us to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in our products or to determine if such conflict minerals are conflict-free. Accordingly, the implementation of these rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. The transition of a majority of the manufacturing of our mountain bike products to Taiwan may negatively impact our brand image and consumer loyalty, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. As we transition the majority of the manufacturing of our mountain bike products to Taiwan, no assurances can be given that consumers may not be adversely influenced by the fact that such products will no longer be manufactured in the United States or that consumers and OEM customers may not otherwise perceive that the quality of our products is lowered as a result of the fact that they will be manufactured overseas. Such perceptions could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. Federal health care reform legislation could increase our expenses and adversely impact our results of operations. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. These health care reform laws require employers such as us to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. We are unable at this time to accurately predict the impact that these laws will have on our future health care benefit and insurance premium costs and our costs for temporary employees that we obtain through agencies. If these costs increase and we are unable to raise the prices we charge our customers to cover these increased expenses, such increases in costs could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on increasingly complex information systems for management of our manufacturing, distribution, sales and other functions. If our information systems fail to perform these functions adequately or if we experience an interruption in our operations, our business could suffer. All of our major operations, including manufacturing, distribution, sales and accounting, are dependent upon our complex information systems. Our information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from, among other things: • earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane and other natural disasters; • power loss, computer systems failure, internet and telecommunications or data network failure; and • hackers, computer viruses, software bugs or glitches. Any damage or significant disruption in the operation of such systems or the failure of our information systems to perform as expected could disrupt our operations, reduce our efficiency, delay our fulfillment of customer orders or require significant unanticipated expenditures to correct, and thereby have a negative effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 Table of Contents We may grow in the future through acquisitions. Growth by acquisitions involves risks and we may not be able to effectively integrate businesses we acquire or we may not be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all. In the fourth quarter of 2013 we acquired certain assets of our third party Germany-based distributor and service center, and we intend to selectively evaluate additional acquisitions in the future. Any acquisitions that we might make are subject to various risks and uncertainties and could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These risks include the inability to integrate effectively the operations, products, technologies and personnel of the acquired companies (some of which may be spread out in different geographic regions), the inability to achieve anticipated cost savings or operating synergies, and the risk we may not be able to effectively manage our operations at an increased scale of operations resulting from such acquisitions. In the event we do complete acquisitions in the future, such acquisitions could affect our cash flows and net income as we expend funds, increase indebtedness and incur additional expenses in connection with pursuing acquisitions. We may also issue shares of our common stock or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. We may not be able to identify or consummate any future acquisitions on favorable terms, or at all. Our operating results are subject to quarterly variations in our sales, which could make our operating results difficult to predict and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, substantial quarterly variations in our sales and net income. Our quarterly results of operations fluctuate, in some cases significantly, as a result of a variety of other factors, including, among other things: • the timing of new product releases or other significant announcements by us or our competitors; • new advertising initiatives; • fluctuations in raw materials and component costs; and • changes in our practices with respect to building inventory. As a result of these quarterly fluctuations, comparisons of our operating results between different quarters within a single year are not necessarily meaningful and may not be accurate indicators of our future performance. Any quarterly fluctuations that we report in the future may differ from the expectations of market analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. We also believe that the seasonal nature of our business may have been overshadowed over each of the past few years due to the rapid growth in sales we have experienced during the same period. Our beliefs regarding the future growth of the high-performance suspension product market are supported by qualitative data and limited sources and may not be reliable. A reduction or lack of continued growth in the popularity of high-end mountain bikes or powered vehicles or in the number of consumers who are willing to pay premium prices for well-designed performance-oriented equipment in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our product sales and profits, financial condition or results of operations. We generate virtually all of our revenues from sales of high-performance suspension products. Our beliefs regarding the outlook of the high-performance suspension product market come from qualitative data and limited sources, which may not be reliable. If our beliefs regarding the opportunities in the market for our products are incorrect or the number of consumers who we believe are willing to pay premium prices for well-designed performance-oriented equipment in the markets in which we sell our products does not increase, or declines, we may fail to achieve future growth and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile, and you might not be able to sell your shares at or above the price you pay for the shares. Prior to our IPO in August 2013, our common stock had no prior trading history. The trading price of our common stock could be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock could include: • variations in our operating results or those of our competitors; • new product or other significant announcements by us or our competitors; • changes in our product mix; 21 Table of Contents • changes in consumer preferences; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that elect to follow our common stock; • changes in general economic conditions as well as conditions affecting our industry in particular; • sales of our common stock by us, our significant stockholders or our directors or executive officers; and • the expiration of contractual lock-up agreements. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price fluctuations. Fluctuations in the stock market generally or with respect to companies in our industry could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. Some companies that have had volatile market prices for their securities have had securities class actions filed against them. A suit filed against us, regardless of its merits or outcome, could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert management’s attention. A market for our securities may not be maintained and our stock price may decline. Prior to our IPO in August 2013, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. Although we have completed our IPO and shares of our common stock are listed and trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, an active trading market for our shares may not be sustained. In addition, we cannot provide any guarantee as to the liquidity of such market. In the absence of an active trading market for our common stock, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares of our common stock at the time they would like to sell. Future sales of our shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or are perceived by the public market as intending to sell, the trading price of our common stock could decline below the IPO price. As of December 31, 2013, we had 36,317,087 shares of common stock outstanding, 9,857,143 of which are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market. As of December 31, 2013, 25,544,967 shares of common stock outstanding were held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and are subject to volume and manner of sale limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Certain of our existing stockholders have demand and piggyback rights to require us to register with the SEC up to 27,745,658 shares of our common stock. If we register any of these shares of common stock, those stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. In addition, the shares that either are subject to outstanding options or may be granted in the future under our equity incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act. We are an “emerging growth company,” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012. For as long as we are an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding advisory “say-on-pay” and “say-when-on-pay” votes on executive compensation and shareholder advisory votes on golden parachute compensation. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year during which we have total annual gross revenues of $1 billion or more; (ii) the last day of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our IPO; (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt; or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer” under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive to the extent we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. 22 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or if they publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes unfavorable research about our business or our industry, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our Sponsor and our directors and officers and insiders have substantial control over us and are able to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2013, our Sponsor, beneficially owned approximately 53.9% of our outstanding common stock, and our directors and executive officers and their affiliates (excluding our Sponsor) beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 13.0% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant influence and, in the case of our Sponsor, control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and approval of any merger, consolidation, or sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets or other significant corporate transactions. In addition, our Sponsor has input on all matters before our board of directors because our director Elias Sabo is affiliated with our Sponsor. Our Sponsor may also delay or prevent a change of control or otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, even if such a change of control would benefit our other stockholders. So long as our Sponsor or any of its affiliates continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our outstanding common stock, even if such amount drops below 50%, they will continue to be able to significantly influence our decisions. In addition, our Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that may compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that are complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. We will incur increased costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include eventual compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. In addition, our management team will also have to adapt to the requirements of being a public company. We expect complying with these rules and regulations will substantially increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The increased costs associated with operating as a public company will decrease our net income or increase our net loss, and may require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our products or services. Additionally, if these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. As a public company, we also expect that it may be more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. 23 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws, or our Charter Documents, as well as Delaware law, contain provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable. Among other things, these provisions: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to discourage a takeover attempt; • establish a classified board of directors, as a result of which the successors to the directors whose terms have expired will be elected to serve from the time of election and qualification until the third annual meeting following their election; • require that directors be removed from office only for cause; • provide that vacancies on our board of directors, including newly created directorships, may be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • from and after the date that our Sponsor and its affiliates no longer collectively beneficially own (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, at least a majority of the voting power of all then outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, or the Trigger Date, prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; • provide that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by our board of directors, our Chairperson of the board of directors, our Lead Director (if we do not have a Chairperson or the Chairperson is disabled), our Chief Executive Officer or our President (in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer) or, until the Trigger Date, our Sponsor; • from and after the Trigger Date, require supermajority stockholder voting for our stockholders to effect certain amendments to our Charter Documents; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing other matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or DGCL, which generally limits the ability of a Delaware corporation to engage in any broad range of business combinations with a stockholder owning 15% or more of such corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which such stockholder became an “interested” stockholder. In order for us to consummate a business combination with an interested stockholder within three years of the date on which the stockholder became interested, either (i) the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming interested must be approved by our board of directors prior to the date the stockholder became interested, (ii) the interested stockholder must own at least 85% of our outstanding voting stock at the time the transaction commences (excluding voting stock owned by directors who are also officers and certain employee stock plans) or (iii) the business combination must be approved by our board of directors and authorized by at least two-thirds of our stockholders (excluding the interested stockholder) at a special or annual meeting (not by written consent). This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change in control transaction or changes in our board of directors and management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares of our common stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, with certain limited exceptions, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer or other employee of our company owed to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our Charter Documents, (iv) any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our Charter Documents, or (v) any action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock is deemed to have received notice of and consented to the foregoing provisions. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find this choice of forum provision inapplicable to, or 24 Table of Contents unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 