Item 1A. RISK FACTORS As of February 20, 2009, Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 5,825 tobacco-related lawsuits, including approximately 1,055 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant. These cases, which are extremely costly to defend, could result in substantial judgments against Lorillard Tobacco and/or Lorillard, Inc. Numerous legal actions, proceedings and claims arising out of the sale, distribution, manufacture, development, advertising, marketing and claimed health effects of cigarettes are pending against Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., and it is likely that similar claims will continue to be filed for the foreseeable future. In addition, several cases have been filed against Lorillard Tobacco and other tobacco companies challenging certain provisions of the Master Settlement Agreement among major tobacco manufacturers and 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions (the “MSA”), and state statutes promulgated to carry out and enforce the MSA. Punitive damages, often in amounts ranging into the billions of dollars, are specifically pleaded in a number of cases in addition to compensatory and other damages. It is possible that the outcome of these cases, individually or in the aggregate, could result in bankruptcy. It is also possible that Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. may be unable to post a surety bond in an amount sufficient to stay execution of a judgment in jurisdictions that require such bond pending an appeal on the merits of the case. Even if Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc. are successful in defending some or all of these actions, these types of cases are very expensive to defend. A material increase in the number of pending claims could significantly increase defense costs and have an adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Further, adverse decisions in litigations against other tobacco companies could have an adverse impact on the industry, including us. In several cases in recent years, for example, various courts, including the U.S. Supreme Court, have considered the ratio of awards of actual damages to those of punitive damages. In one such case, Williams v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., plaintiff was awarded approximately $525,000 in compensatory damages and $80 million in punitive damages, a ratio of more than 150:1. The case has been the subject of multiple appellate rulings and is again pending before the U.S. Supreme Court. We are not a party to Williams. Should appellate courts establish binding precedents regarding these or other issues, the conduct of future trials involving us would be affected. A judgment has been rendered against Lorillard Tobacco in the Scott litigation. In July 2008, the District Court of Orleans Parish, Louisiana, entered an amended final judgment in favor of the plaintiffs in Scott v. The American Tobacco Company, et al. (District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed May 24, 1996), a class action on behalf of certain cigarette smokers resident in the State of Louisiana. Lorillard, Inc., which was a party to the case in the past, is no longer a defendant in Scott. The amended final judgment orders defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, to pay approximately $264 million to fund a court-supervised cessation program for class members. The amended final judgment also awards post-judgment judicial interest that will continue to accrue from June 2004 until the judgment either is paid or is reversed on appeal. As of February 20, 2009, judicial interest totaled approximately $93.5 million. Defendants have appealed the amended final judgment to the Louisiana Court of Appeal, Fourth District. Lorillard Tobacco’s share of any judgment, including an award of post-judgment interest, has not been determined. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we recorded a pretax provision of approximately $66 million for this matter. The Florida Supreme Court’s ruling in Engle has resulted in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The case of Engle v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al. (Circuit Court, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994) was certified as a class action on behalf of Florida residents, and survivors of Florida residents, who were injured or died from medical conditions allegedly caused by addiction to smoking. The case was tried between 1998 and 2000 in a multi-phase trial that resulted in verdicts in favor of the class. During 2006, the Florida Supreme Court issued a ruling that, among other things, determined that the case could not proceed further as a class action. In February 2008, the trial court entered an order on remand from the Florida Supreme Court that formally decertified the class. The 2006 ruling by the Florida Supreme Court in Engle also permitted members of the Engle class to file individual claims, including claims for punitive damages. The Florida Supreme Court held that these individual plaintiffs are entitled to rely on a number of the jury’s findings in favor of the plaintiffs in the first phase of the Engle trial. These findings included that smoking cigarettes causes a number of diseases; that cigarettes are addictive or dependence-producing; and that the defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco and Lorillard, Inc., were negligent, breached express and implied warranties, placed cigarettes on the market that were defective and unreasonably dangerous, and concealed or conspired to conceal the risks of smoking. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in approximately 3,100 cases pending in various state and federal courts in Florida that were filed by members of the Engle class (the “Engle Progeny Cases”), including approximately 1,050 cases in which Lorillard, Inc. is a co-defendant. These 3,100 cases are filed on behalf of approximately 8,675 individual plaintiffs. As of February 20, 2009, Lorillard Tobacco was a defendant in several Engle Progeny Cases that have been placed on courts’ 2009 trial calendars or in which specific 2009 trial dates have been set. Lorillard, Inc. is a defendant in some of these cases. Trial schedules are subject to change and it is not possible to predict how many of the Engle Progeny Cases pending against Lorillard Tobacco or Lorillard, Inc. will be tried during 2009. It also is not possible to predict whether some courts will implement procedures that consolidate multiple Engle Progeny Cases for trial. 13 Table of Contents The verdict returned in the federal government’s reimbursement case, while not final, could impose significant financial burdens on us and adversely affect future sales and profits. In August 2006, a final judgment and remedial order was entered in United States of America v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (U.S. District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999). The court based its final judgment and remedial order on the government’s only remaining claims, which were based on the defendants’ alleged violations of the Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”). Lorillard, Inc. is not a party to this matter, but Lorillard Tobacco is one of the defendants in the case. Although the verdict did not award monetary damages to the plaintiff, the final judgment and remedial order imposes a number of requirements on the defendants. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, corrective statements by defendants related to the health effects of smoking. The remedial order also would place certain prohibitions on the manner in which defendants market their cigarette products and would eliminate any use of “lights” or similar product descriptors. It is likely that the remedial order, including the prohibitions on the use of the descriptors relating to low tar cigarettes, will negatively affect our future sales and profits. Defendants, including Lorillard Tobacco, have noticed appeals from the final judgment and the remedial order. Plaintiff also has noticed an appeal from the final judgment. Defendants have received a stay of the judgment and remedial order from the District of Columbia Court of Appeals that will remain in effect while the appeal is proceeding. As a result of the government’s appeal, it is possible that certain of the government’s claims or damages could be reinstated. While trial was underway, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals ruled that plaintiff may not seek to recover profits earned by the defendants, but this ruling could be reconsidered in the present appeal. Prior to trial, the government had estimated that it was entitled to approximately $280.0 billion from the defendants for its claim to recover profits earned by the defendants. In its pending appeal, the government has preserved its right to seek review of this claim by the United States Supreme Court. During trial, the government sought more than $10.0 billion for the creation of nationwide smoking cessation, public education and counter-marketing programs. In its 2006 verdict, the trial court declined to award such relief. It is possible that this claim could be reinstated on appeal. The Court of Appeals heard argument of the case in August 2008 and a ruling could be issued at any time. A ruling by the United States Supreme Court could limit the ability of cigarette manufacturers to contend that certain claims asserted against them in product liability litigation are barred. The Supreme Court’s decision also could encourage litigation involving cigarettes labeled as “lights” or “low tar.” In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court issued a decision that neither the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act nor the Federal Trade Commission’s regulation of cigarettes’ tar and nicotine disclosures preempts (or bars) some of plaintiffs’ claims. The decision also more broadly addresses the scope of preemption based on the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, and could significantly limit cigarette manufacturers’ arguments that certain of plaintiffs’ other claims in smoking and health litigation, including claims based on the alleged concealment of information with respect to the hazards of smoking, are preempted. In addition, the Supreme Court’s ruling could encourage litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us, regarding the sale of cigarettes labeled as “lights” or “low tar,” and it may limit cigarette manufacturers’ ability to defend such claims. The Supreme Court issued this ruling in a purported “lights” class action, Good v. Altria Group, Inc. We are not a defendant in Good. Actions by the Federal Trade Commission could be cited as support for allegations against cigarette manufacturers, including us. In November 2008, the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) rescinded its guidance regarding disclosure of tar and nicotine yields and prohibited use of the phrase “per FTC Method” to describe those yields. In its rescission of guidance, the FTC stated that “[t]here is now a consensus among the public health and scientific communities that the Cambridge Filter Method is sufficiently flawed that statements of tar and nicotine yields as measured by that method are not likely to help consumers make informed decisions.” The Cambridge Filter Method is a standardized test utilizing a smoking machine to determine the tar and nicotine, among other constituents, in a particular brand or style of cigarettes. The FTC further stated that it “believes the statements of tar and nicotine yields as measured by this test method are confusing at best, and are likely to mislead 14 Table of Contents consumers who believe they will get proportionately less tar and nicotine from lower-rated cigarettes than from higher-rated brands.” In addition, the FTC stated that any continued use of cigarette descriptors must “not convey an erroneous or unsubstantiated message that a particular cigarette presents a reduced risk of harm or is otherwise likely to mislead consumers.” It is possible that these actions by the FTC could be cited as support for allegations by plaintiffs in pending or future litigation, or encourage additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. Lorillard Tobacco is a defendant in a case that was initially certified as a nationwide class action involving “lights” cigarettes and that could result in a substantial verdict, if the class certification order is reinstated. Schwab v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al. (U.S. District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed May 11, 2004), was certified by a federal judge as a nationwide class action on behalf of individuals who purchased “light” cigarettes. Plaintiffs’ claims in Schwab are based on defendants’ alleged RICO violations in the manufacture, marketing and sale of “lights” cigarettes. Plaintiffs have estimated damages to the class to be in the hundreds of billions of dollars. Any damages awarded to the plaintiffs based on defendants’ violation of the RICO statute would be multiplied by a factor of three. In March 2008, a federal court of appeals reversed the class certification ruling. Plaintiffs did not seek further review of this decision and the case has been returned to the Eastern District of New York for further proceedings. We cannot predict future activity in this case. The U.S. Surgeon General has issued a report regarding the risks of cigarette smoking to non-smokers that could result in additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, additional restrictions placed on the use of cigarettes, and additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. In a report entitled “The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General, 2006,” the U.S. Surgeon General summarized conclusions from previous Surgeon General’s reports concerning the health effects of exposure to second-hand smoke by non-smokers. According to this report, scientific evidence now supports six major conclusions: • Second-hand smoke causes premature death and disease in children and in adults who do not smoke. • Children exposed to second-hand smoke are at an increased risk for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory infections and ear problems. • Exposure of adults to second-hand smoke has immediate adverse effects on the cardiovascular system and causes heart disease and lung cancer. • The scientific evidence indicates that there is no risk-free level of exposure to second-hand smoke. • Many millions of Americans, both children and adults, are exposed to second-hand smoke in their homes and workplaces. • Eliminating smoking in indoor spaces fully protects non-smokers from exposure to second-hand smoke. Separating smokers from non-smokers, cleaning the air, and ventilating buildings cannot eliminate exposures of non-smokers to second-hand smoke. This report could form the basis of additional litigation against cigarette manufacturers, including us. The report could be used to support existing litigation against us or other cigarette manufacturers. It also is possible that the Surgeon General’s report could result in additional restrictions placed on cigarette smoking or in additional regulations placed on the manufacture or sale of cigarettes. It is possible that such additional restrictions or regulations could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States, including sales of our brands. These developments may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents The proposed regulation of cigarettes by the Food and Drug Administration may adversely affect our business. A bill that would grant the FDA authority to regulate tobacco products was introduced in Congress in February 2007. The bill, which is being supported by Philip Morris and opposed by us and RAI, was considered and approved by the House of Representatives in 2008, but was not considered by the Senate during that Congressional session. It is possible that the full Senate and House of Representatives will consider and approve the bill in 2009. The proposed bill would: • Establish a Tobacco Scientific Advisory Panel to evaluate the issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes; • require larger and more severe health warnings on packs and cartons; • ban the use of descriptors on tobacco products, such as “low-tar” and “light”; • require the disclosure of ingredients and additives to consumers; • require pre-market approval by the FDA for claims made with respect to reduced risk or reduced exposure products; • require the reduction or elimination of nicotine or any other compound in cigarettes; • allow the FDA to mandate the use of reduced risk technologies in conventional cigarettes; • allow the FDA to place more severe restrictions on the advertising, marketing and sales of cigarettes; • permit inconsistent state regulation of labeling and advertising and eliminate the existing federal preemption of such regulation; and • grant the FDA the regulatory authority to consider and impose broad additional restrictions through a rule making process, including a ban on the use of menthol in cigarettes. It is possible that such additional regulation could result in a decrease in cigarette sales in the United States (including sales of our brands) and increased costs to us, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We believe that such regulation may adversely affect our ability to compete against our larger competitors, including Philip Morris, who may be able to more quickly and cost-effectively comply with these new rules and regulations. We have substantial payment obligations under litigation settlement agreements which will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows and operating income in future periods. In 1998, Lorillard Tobacco, Philip Morris Incorporated, Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (the “Original Participating Manufacturers”) entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. We and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (the “Initial State Settlements” and, together with the MSA, are referred to as the “State Settlement Agreements).” Under the State Settlement Agreements, we paid $1.08 billion in 2008 and are obligated to pay between $1.10 and $1.15 billion in 2009, primarily based on 2008 estimated industry volume. Annual payments under the State Settlement Agreements are required to be paid in perpetuity and are based, among other things, on our domestic market share and unit volume of domestic shipments, with respect to the MSA, in the year preceding the year in which payment is due, and, with respect to the Initial State Settlements, in the year in which payment is due. 16 Table of Contents We are unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of material pending litigation. We record provisions in our consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when we determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Except for the impact of the State Settlement Agreements and the provision relating to the Scott case, as described in the risk factor “— A judgment has been rendered against Lorillard Tobacco in the Scott litigation” above, we are unable to make a meaningful estimate of the amount or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of material pending litigation and, therefore, no material provision has been made in our consolidated financial statements for any unfavorable outcome. It is possible that our results of operations, cash flows and financial position could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome of certain pending or future litigation. We face intense competition and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. We compete primarily on the basis of product quality, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and price. We are subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. The competitive environment and our competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence, competitors’ introduction of low-priced products or innovative products, higher cigarette taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and product regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco products. Our principal competitors are the two other major U.S. cigarette manufacturers, Philip Morris and RAI. RAI was formed in 2004 as a result of the merger of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (now a wholly owned subsidiary of RAI) and the U.S. operations of Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation and an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of British American Tobacco p.l.c.). We also compete against numerous other smaller manufacturers or importers of cigarettes. If our major competitors were to significantly increase the level of price discounts offered to consumers, we could respond by increasing price discounts, which could have a materially adverse effect on our profitability and results of operations. Concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks could adversely affect our business. Some plaintiffs and other sources, including public health agencies, have claimed or expressed concerns that mentholated cigarettes may pose greater health risks than non-mentholated cigarettes, including concerns that menthol cigarettes may make it easier to start smoking and harder to quit. For example, in June 2008, seven former U.S. health secretaries criticized a bill then under consideration in the House of Representatives to grant the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products and ban the use of characterizing flavors other than menthol in cigarettes. The former health secretaries argued that the menthol exemption discriminates against African-American smokers who often prefer menthol cigarettes and have higher rates of some smoking-related diseases. In the course of consideration of the bill by a committee of the House of Representatives an amendment was offered and rejected which would have banned the use of menthol as an ingredient in cigarettes. The final bill passed by the House in July, 2008 included a provision establishing a Tobacco Scientific Advisory Committee to evaluate issues surrounding the use of menthol as a flavoring or ingredient in cigarettes within one year of such Committee’s establishment. The bill also would have permitted the FDA to ban menthol upon a finding that such prohibition would be appropriate for the public health. Prior to these developments, in 2002 the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health, Center for Disease Control and Prevention and National Cancer Institute and other public health agencies supported the First Conference on Menthol Cigarettes. The executive summary of the conference proceedings outlined “why it is important to study menthol cigarettes” and included statements that “menthol’s sensation of coolness might result in deeper inhalation” and “could contribute to increased uptake of inhaled tobacco constituents, including nicotine and cancer-causing agents...” In addition, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention has published a pamphlet titled “Pathways to Freedom, Winning the Fight Against Tobacco” that, under the heading “The Dangers of Menthol” states that “menthol can make it easier for a 17 Table of Contents smoker to inhale deeply, which may allow more chemicals to enter the lungs. Menthol in cigarettes does not make smoking safer. In fact, menthol may even make things worse.” Since we are the leading manufacturer of mentholated cigarettes in the United States, we could face increased exposure to tobacco-related litigation as a result of such allegations. Even if such claims are unsubstantiated, increased concerns about the health impact of mentholated cigarettes could adversely affect our sales, including sales of Newport. Any ban or limitation on the use of menthol in cigarettes would adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. We are subject to important limitations on advertising and marketing cigarettes that could harm our competitive position. Television and radio advertisements of tobacco products have been prohibited since 1971. Under the State Settlement Agreements, we generally cannot use billboard advertising, cartoon characters, sponsorship of concerts, non-tobacco merchandise bearing Lorillard’s brand names and various other advertising and marketing techniques. In addition, the MSA prohibits the targeting of youth in advertising, promotion or marketing of tobacco products. Accordingly, we have determined not to advertise our cigarettes in magazines with large readership among people under the age of 18. Additional restrictions may be imposed or agreed to in the future. These limitations may make it difficult to maintain the value of an existing brand if sales or market share decline for any reason. Moreover, these limitations significantly impair the ability of cigarette manufacturers, including us, to launch new premium brands. Sales of cigarettes are subject to substantial federal, state and local excise taxes. Federal excise taxes were last increased in 2002 from $0.34 per pack to $0.39 per pack. Congress recently enacted and the President signed into law an increase in the federal excise tax on cigarettes of $0.6166 per pack to $1.0066 per pack, effective April 1, 2009, to finance health insurance for children. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, combined state and local excise taxes ranged from $0.07 to $4.25 per pack. Various states and localities have raised the excise tax on cigarettes substantially in recent years. In addition, increases in state excise taxes on cigarette sales were implemented in seven states and the District of Columbia during 2008 and ranged from $0.20 per pack to $1.25 per pack. It is our expectation that several states will propose further increases in 2009 and in subsequent years. We believe that increases in excise and similar taxes have had an adverse impact on sales of cigarettes. In addition, we believe that the new increase in the federal excise tax, as well as possible future increases, the extent of which cannot be predicted, compounded by weakening economic conditions, could result in further volume declines for the cigarette industry, including us, and an increased sales shift toward lower priced discount cigarettes rather than premium brands. We are dependent on the domestic cigarette business, which we expect to continue to contract. Although we conduct business in Puerto Rico, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, our cigarette business in the 50 states of the United States (the “domestic cigarette market”) is currently our only significant business. The domestic cigarette market has generally been contracting and we expect it to continue to contract. We do not have foreign cigarette sales that could offset these effects, as we sold the international rights to substantially all of our brands, including Newport, in 1977. As a result of price increases, restrictions on advertising and promotions, increases in regulation and excise taxes, health concerns, a decline in the social acceptability of smoking, increased pressure from anti-tobacco groups and other factors, industry-wide domestic cigarette shipments have decreased at a compound annual rate of approximately 2.2% during the period 1999 through 2008. Industry-wide domestic cigarette shipments decreased by an estimated 3.3% for 2008 compared to 2007, 5.0% during 2007, compared to 2006, and 1.5% during 2006 compared to 2005. We derive most of our revenue from one brand. Our largest selling brand, Newport, accounted for approximately 93.7% of our sales revenue for 2008. Our principal strategic plan revolves around the marketing and sales promotion in support of the Newport brand. We cannot ensure that we will continue to successfully implement our strategic plan with respect to 18 Table of Contents Newport or that implementation of our strategic plan will result in the maintenance or growth of the Newport brand. The use of significant amounts of promotion expenses and sales incentives in response to competitive actions and market price sensitivity may have a material adverse impact on our business. Since 1998, the cigarette market has been increasingly price competitive due to the impact of, among other things, higher state and local excise taxes and the market share of deep discount brands. In response to these and other competitor actions and pricing pressures, we have engaged in significant use of promotional expenses and sales incentives. The cost of these measures could have a material adverse impact on our business. We regularly review the results of our promotional spending activities and adjust our promotional spending programs in an effort to maintain our competitive position. Accordingly, unit sales volume and sales promotion costs in any period are not necessarily indicative of sales and costs that may be realized in subsequent periods. We rely on a limited number of key executives and may continue to experience difficulty in attracting and hiring qualified new personnel in some areas of our business. The loss of any of our key employees could adversely affect our business. Other than with respect to our chief executive officer, Martin L. Orlowsky, we do not have employment agreements with any of our key employees. As a tobacco company, we may experience difficulty in identifying and hiring qualified executives and other personnel in some areas of our business. This difficulty is primarily attributable to the health and social issues associated with the tobacco industry. The loss of services of any key personnel or our inability to attract and hire personnel with requisite skills could restrict our ability to develop new products, enhance existing products in a timely manner, sell products or manage our business effectively. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, which in turn could adversely affect the value of our Common Stock. Several of our competitors have developed alternative cigarette products. Certain of the major cigarette makers have developed and marketed alternative cigarette products. For example, Philip Morris developed an alternative cigarette, called Accord, in which the tobacco is heated rather than burned. RAI has developed and is marketing an alternative cigarette, called Eclipse, in which the tobacco is primarily heated, with only a small amount of tobacco burned. Vector Tobacco Inc. is marketing a cigarette offered in several packings with declining levels of nicotine, called Quest. Philip Morris and RAI have indicated that these products may deliver fewer smoke components compared to conventional cigarettes. We have not marketed similar alternative cigarettes. Should such alternative cigarette products gain a significant share of the domestic cigarette market, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. We may not be able to develop, produce or commercialize competitive new products and technologies required by regulatory changes or changes in consumer preferences. Consumer health concerns and changes in regulations are likely to require us to introduce new products or make substantial changes to existing products. For example, 38 states and the District of Columbia have enacted legislation requiring cigarette manufacturers to reduce the ignition propensity of their products. We believe that there may be increasing pressure from public health authorities to develop a conventional cigarette, an alternative cigarette or an alternative tobacco product that provides a demonstrable reduced risk of adverse health effects. We may not be able to develop a reduced risk product that is acceptable to consumers. In addition, the costs associated with developing any such new products and technologies could be substantial. Increased restrictions on smoking in public places could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. In recent years, states and many local and municipal governments and agencies, as well as private businesses, have adopted legislation, regulations or policies which prohibit, restrict, or discourage smoking; 19 Table of Contents smoking in public buildings and facilities, stores, restaurants and bars; and smoking on airline flights and in the workplace. Other similar laws and regulations are currently under consideration and may be enacted by state and local governments in the future. Although we have no empirical evidence of the effect of such restrictions, we believe that restrictions on smoking in public and other places may lead to a decrease in the number of people who smoke or a decrease in the number of cigarettes smoked by smokers. Increased restrictions on smoking in public and other places may have caused a decrease, and may continue to cause a decrease in the volume of cigarettes that would otherwise be sold by us absent such restrictions, which may have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. The availability of counterfeit cigarettes could adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and profitability. Sales of counterfeit cigarettes in the United States, including counterfeits of our Newport brand, could adversely impact sales by the manufacturers of the brands that are counterfeited and potentially damage the value and reputation of those brands. Additionally, smokers who mistake counterfeit cigarettes for our cigarettes may attribute quality and taste deficiencies in the counterfeit product to our brands and discontinue purchasing our brands. Although we do not believe that sales of counterfeit Newport cigarettes have had a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits to date, the availability of counterfeit Newport cigarettes, together with substantial increases in excise taxes and other potential price increases which could result in an increase in the availability of counterfeit product, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. We rely on a single manufacturing facility for the production of our cigarettes. We produce all of our cigarettes at our Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing facility. If our manufacturing plant is damaged, destroyed or incapacitated or we are otherwise unable to operate our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to produce cigarettes and may be unable to meet customer demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits. We rely on a small number of suppliers for certain of our domestic leaf tobacco and reconstituted tobacco. We purchase approximately 80% of our domestic leaf tobacco through one supplier, Alliance One International, Inc. If Alliance One becomes unwilling or unable to supply leaf tobacco to us, we believe that leaf tobacco may not be available at prices comparable to those we pay to Alliance One, which could have a material adverse effect on our future profits. In addition, we purchase all of our reconstituted tobacco from one supplier, which is an affiliate of RAI, one of our major competitors. Reconstituted tobacco is a form of tobacco material manufactured as a paper-like sheet from small pieces of tobacco that are too small to incorporate into the cigarette directly and may include some tobacco stems, and which is used as a component of cigarette blends. If RAI becomes unwilling or unable to supply us and we are unable to find an alternative supplier on a timely basis, our operations could be disrupted resulting in lower production levels and reduced sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume, revenue and profits in the future. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our intellectual property is material to the conduct of our business. Our ability to maintain and further build brand recognition is dependent on the continued and exclusive use of our trademarks, service marks, trade dress, trade secrets and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logo and the unique features of our tobacco products. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are ineffective, thereby permitting a third-party to misappropriate or infringe on our intellectual property, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and might prevent our brands from growing or maintaining market share. 20 Table of Contents As an independent public company, we expend significant time and resources to comply with rules and regulations that did not apply to us prior to the Separation, including rules related to internal control over financial reporting. Failure to comply with such rules may lead investors to lose confidence in our financial statements, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our Common Stock. As an independent public company following our Separation from Loews in June 2008, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as the rules of the NYSE, require us to implement additional corporate governance practices and adhere to a variety of reporting requirements. Compliance with these public company obligations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs and could place additional demands on our finance and accounting staff and on our financial, accounting and information systems. In particular, as a public company, our management is required to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and include a report of management on our internal control in our annual reports on Form 10-K. In addition, our independent public accounting firm is required to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. If at any time we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting or, if our independent auditors are unable to provide us with an attestation and an unqualified report as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the price of our Common Stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of us, which could decrease the trading price of our Common Stock. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws contain provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include: • a board of directors that is divided into three classes with staggered terms; • elimination of the right of our shareholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how our shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • limitations on the right of shareholders to remove directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding Common Stock. We believe these provisions protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors and by providing our board with time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our Board of Directors determines is not in our best interests and those of our shareholders. The Separation Agreement between us and Loews contains provisions that may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. The tax-free nature of the Separation may be affected by certain transactions undertaken by us. In particular, under Section 355(e) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Separation would become taxable to Loews if it was determined that 50% or more of the shares of our Common Stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Separation. If, as a result of acquisitions of our Common Stock subsequent to the Separation, the Separation becomes taxable pursuant to 21 Table of Contents Section 355(e), Loews would recognize a substantial gain for tax purposes as the Separation would be treated as a sale of Lorillard for federal income tax purposes. The Separation Agreement imposes restrictions on our ability to engage in certain significant corporate transactions, for a period of two years, that could cause the Separation to become taxable to Loews. We, however, may undertake any such action if we first obtain a supplemental ruling from the IRS or an unqualified tax opinion of a nationally recognized law firm, in either case in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Loews, to the effect that the proposed transaction would not adversely affect the tax-free nature of the Separation. Moreover, the Separation Agreement requires us (and any successor entity) to indemnify Loews for any losses resulting from the failure of the Separation to qualify as a tax free transaction (except if the failure to qualify is solely due to Loews’s fault). This indemnification obligation applies regardless of whether the action is restricted as described above, or whether we or a potential acquirer obtains a supplemental ruling or an opinion of counsel. These restrictions and potential indemnification obligations may prevent or discourage other companies from acquiring us. We are required to indemnify Loews against losses and other expenses incurred at any time (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation) with respect to our assets, properties and businesses. In the Separation Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors, employees and agents against costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, litigation matters and other claims) based on, arising out of or resulting from, among other things, the ownership or the operation of us and our assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of us and our businesses at any time prior to or following the Separation (including with respect to smoking and health claims and litigation). If Loews incurs legal or other fees or costs and expenses resulting from the operation of our businesses or otherwise with respect to us, we are required to reimburse Loews for such losses and any legal or other fees related thereto, which could be substantial. These indemnification obligations may discourage third parties from trying to acquire us because our indemnification obligations are binding on our successors and we are prohibited by the Separation Agreement from merging, consolidating or transferring all or a significant portion of our properties or assets unless the resulting entity, transferee or successor agrees to be bound by these indemnification obligations. In addition, we could face substantial charges for indemnification payments to Loews, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the Separation will alter our legal exposure with respect to tobacco-related claims. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 