ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the following risks. This list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. If we fail to develop and deliver innovative technologies in response to changes in the entertainment industry, our business could decline. The markets for our products and technologies are characterized by rapid change and technological evolution. We will need to continue to expend considerable resources on research and development in the future in order to continue to design and deliver enduring, innovative entertainment products and technologies. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to develop and effectively market new products, technologies and services that adequately or competitively address the needs of the changing marketplace. In addition, we may not correctly identify new or changing market trends at an early enough stage to capitalize on market opportunities. At times such changes can be dramatic, such as the shift from VHS videocassettes to DVDs for consumer playback of movies in homes and elsewhere, the anticipated shift to high definition DVD or the transition from packaged media to Internet distribution. The continued decline in worldwide shipments of VCRs has resulted in a decline in our VCR Plus+ revenues over time, causing us to focus on growth in other parts of our business. Our future success depends to a great extent on our ability to develop and deliver innovative technologies that are widely adopted in response to changes in the entertainment industry and that are compatible with the technologies or products introduced by other entertainment industry participants. Despite our efforts and investments in developing new products, services and technologies: • we cannot assure you that the level of funding and significant resources we are committing for investments in new products, services and technologies will be sufficient or result in successful new products, services or technologies; • we cannot assure you that our newly developed products, services or technologies can be successfully protected as proprietary intellectual property rights or will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others; • we cannot assure you that any new products or services that we develop will achieve market acceptance; • our products, services and technologies may become obsolete due to rapid advancements in technology and changes in consumer preferences; and • our competitors and/or potential customers may develop products, services or technologies similar to those developed by us, resulting in a reduction in the potential demand for our newly developed products, services or technologies. Our failure to successfully develop new and improved products, services and technologies, including as a result of any of the risks described above, may reduce our future growth and profitability and may adversely affect our business results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, we could experience price reductions, fewer customers, reduced margins or loss of market share. Our IPGs face competition from companies that produce and market program guides as well as television schedule information in a variety of formats, both print and electronic. Several products and services on the market offer simplified VCR programming functions that compete with our VCR Plus+ system. We believe that our DVD digital-to-analog copy protection and videocassette copy protection systems currently have limited competition. It is possible, however, that competitive copy protection technologies could be developed in the future. Increased competition would be likely to result in price reductions and loss of market share, either of which could harm our business. In the video marketplace, there are a variety of supplemental copy protection and encryption systems that provide partial copy protection for digital links. These systems are not directly competitive, as some apply to future products, but they are sometimes confused with our analog copy protection and may create uncertainty in the minds of customers, thereby reducing or delaying our licensing opportunities. Additionally, they may compete from the standpoint of content owners believing they have a limited budget for copy protection, and they may choose to spend their copy protection dollars on only a few technologies. DRM solutions for consumer software, video, and audio have also attracted a number of competitors. It is possible that companies with extensive financial resources may develop or acquire copy protection and rights management solutions that compete with our offerings, or may have a controlling patent position which would negatively impact our cost basis, or may give away their DRM technologies as in the case of the Windows Media Player. In the connected device middleware and metadata marketplace, there is competition not only from other companies, but from customer-implemented internally-developed solutions as well. New competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share in any of these areas. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we do, which could reduce demand for our products or render them obsolete. Our business may be adversely affected by fluctuations in demand for consumer electronics devices incorporating our technologies. We derive significant revenues from CE manufacturer license fees for our IPG and ACP technologies based on the number of units shipped. We do not manufacture hardware, but rather depend on the cooperation of CE manufacturers to incorporate our ACP and IPG technologies into their products. Generally, our license agreements do not require manufacturers to include our technology in any specific number or percentage of units, and only a few of these agreements guarantee a minimum aggregate licensing fee. Purchases of new CE devices, including television sets, integrated satellite receiver decoders, DVRs, DVD recorders, personal computers and Internet appliances are largely discretionary and may be adversely impacted by increasing market saturation, durability of products in the marketplace, new competing products, alternate consumer entertainment options and general economic trends in the countries or regions in which these products are offered. As a result, our future operating results may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in sales of consumer electronics devices employing our technologies. In addition, the decision by manufacturers to incorporate our IPG technology into their products is a function of what other guide technologies and products are available. Our future operating results may be adversely impacted as a result of consumer electronics manufacturers opting not to incorporate our technology into their devices as a result of other available alternatives. 16 Table of Contents Dependence on the cooperation of MSOs and DBS providers, television broadcasters, hardware manufacturers, publications, data providers and delivery mechanisms could adversely affect our revenues. We rely on third party providers to deliver our IPG data to consumer electronics devices that include our IPG. Further, our national data network provides customized and localized listings to our IPG service for MSOs and DBS providers and licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for MSOs and DBS providers. There can be no assurance that these delivery mechanisms will distribute the data without error or that the agreements that govern some of these relationships can be maintained on favorable economic terms. To deliver our IPG data to consumer electronics devices, we have arrangements to carry our data in a part of the television signal called the VBI or its digital signal equivalent, of television stations included in the public broadcasting network, independently owned stations, and stations owned and operated by various station group owners. We have historically only delivered our IPG data to consumer electronics devices through the VBI in analog broadcast signals. The FCC mandate of 100% digital transmission in the United States was scheduled to take effect in February 2009, but has since been delayed by Congress. In anticipation of this, we entered into agreements with CBS and NDI which allow for the distribution of our CE IPG data over the digital broadcast signals of both CBS and NDI participating stations, following the installation of necessary equipment. The FCC has ruled that it is within the discretion of a cable MSO to retransmit or strip out data transmitted in the VBI lines of broadcast stations carried on that MSO’s system. We have agreements with MSOs which provide for carriage of our program listing information in either the VBI or within the digital signal of broadcast television stations. We also rely on other arrangements in the United States, which are not long-term, with other broadcasters for secondary carriage of our IPG data to consumer electronics devices. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully renew or extend any of our existing carriage arrangements when they expire, or that renewals will be on terms that are as favorable to us as the arrangements currently in effect. Our inability to renew the existing arrangements on terms that are favorable to us, or enter into alternative arrangements that allow us to effectively transmit our IPG data to consumer electronics devices could have a material adverse effect on our CE IPG business. Our IPG data to CE devices broadcast through the VBI can be, and has been in the past in some markets, deleted or modified by some of the local service providers. Widespread deletion or modification of this data by service providers could have a material adverse impact on our CE IPG business. To mitigate this risk in the United States, we have entered into agreements with many service providers to ensure that our IPG data to CE devices will not be deleted or modified by such systems. Additionally, cable companies in the United States are progressively moving their systems from an analog format to a digital format, which poses certain problems to the passage of our IPG data to consumer electronics devices carried in their signals. Solving such problems will require the cooperation of third parties such as the MSOs and hardware manufacturers, and may also require additional investment by us. Furthermore, in order for CE devices that incorporate our IPG to receive our data, such data must also be able to pass through any receivers through which such CE devices are receiving television programming signals. Even if our IPG data is passed to cable subscribers through cable networks by the service providers, there is a risk that the cable set-top boxes deployed by such subscribers can impede the passage of our IPG data to CE devices. Widespread impedance of our IPG data to CE devices in any of the manners set forth above could have a material adverse impact on our CE IPG business. We are currently making significant investments in the United States, Europe and Japan to build the capability to provide our program listings information via digital broadcast signals to support the next generation of products from our manufacturing partners. This involves in some cases deploying equipment to aggregate and insert listings data, and securing bandwidth in digital broadcast streams to deliver that data. If we are unable to complete this digital delivery build-out in each of our regions in time to meet the planned deployment of the next generation of digital broadcast reliant CE devices, this could have a material adverse impact on our consumer electronics IPG business. 17 Table of Contents We deliver our data to our IPG service for MSOs and to licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for MSOs via satellite transmission, among other means. While we have built in certain redundancies in our data delivery operation, a third party provides us with satellite capacity to transmit our data to our IPG service for certain MSOs and to licensees of our data used in third party IPGs for MSOs. Our arrangement with the third party provider may be terminated on little or no notice. In the event that a provider of satellite capacity elects not to provide this capacity to transmit our data, there can be no assurance that all of our customers who currently receive our data via such provider will be able to receive our data via alternative means without significant delay or additional cost to us. In the event that such provider elects not to transmit our data, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we purchase some of our program guide information from commercial vendors. The quality, accuracy and timeliness of that data may not continue to meet our standards or be acceptable to consumers. Our VCR Plus+ system relies on consumer access to PlusCode numbers through licensed publications. We depend on the maintenance and renewal of agreements governing the PlusCode publications to ensure the distribution of the PlusCodes. The effects of the continued global economic crisis may impact our business, operating results, financial condition or liquidity. The recent global economic crisis has caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other foreign governments, decreased consumer confidence, overall slower economic activity and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, these macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition or liquidity in a number of ways. For example, if the economic downturn makes it difficult for our customers and suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, they may cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our solutions or reduce production of their products. As many of our solutions are licensed on a per-unit fee basis, our customers’ decision to decrease production of their products or devices may decrease our licensing revenue and adversely impact our operating results. Furthermore, as our customers face a weakening economy, they may not be able to gain sufficient credit in a timely manner, which could result in an impairment of their ability to place orders with us or to make timely payments to us for previous purchases. If this occurs, our revenue may be reduced, thereby having a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, we may be forced to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding may increase, which would have a negative impact on our cash position, liquidity and financial condition. We cannot predict the timing or the duration of this or any other economic downturn in the economy and we are not immune to the effects of general worldwide economic conditions. In addition, financial institution failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions), or financing activities (including the timing and amount of any repurchases of our common stock or debt we may make in the future). Our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. If the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. Finally, like many other stocks, our stock price has been affected by the global economic uncertainties and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn, our stock price could further decrease. 18 Table of Contents If the recent worsening of credit market conditions continues or increases, it could adversely impact our investments and as a result, our liquidity. Recent deterioration of the credit markets has led to liquidity issues and failed auctions in the auction rate securities market. The auction rate securities we hold have failed to trade at recent auctions due to insufficient bids from buyers. We have recorded unrealized losses related to our available-for-sale auction rate securities to accumulated other comprehensive income due to temporary declines in fair value and reclassified all auction rate securities from short-term investments to long-term marketable investments on our balance sheet. If there are future unsuccessful auctions, the fair value of these auction rate securities may continue to decline. The decline in fair value of our available-for-sale auction rate securities may become other than temporary and we may incur impairment charges in connection with these securities which would adversely impact our earnings and financial condition. We are exposed to risks associated with our changing technology base through strategic acquisitions, investments and divestitures. We have expanded our technology base in the past through strategic acquisitions and investments in companies with complementary technologies or intellectual property and intend to do so in the future. Acquisitions hold special challenges in terms of successful integration of technologies, products and employees. In addition to the acquisition of Gemstar in May 2008, over the last two years we completed the divestitures of our TV Guide Magazine business (December 2008), our Software business (April 2008), our Games business (April 2008), our eMeta business (November 2008) and our TVG Network business (January 2009). We also completed the acquisitions of Mediabolic, Inc. (January 2007) and All Media Guide Holdings, Inc. (December 2007) and the acquisition of the assets of Cryptography Research, Inc. (November 2007). We are currently in the process of divesting our TV Guide Network and TV Guide Online businesses and expect to close the divestiture in the first quarter of 2009. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions and divestitures or the benefits of any other acquisitions we have completed or may complete in the future, and we may not be able to incorporate any acquired services, products or technologies with our existing operations, or integrate personnel from the acquired businesses, in which case our business could be harmed. Acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic investments involve numerous risks, including: • problems integrating and divesting the operations, technologies, personnel or products over geographically disparate locations; • unanticipated costs, litigation and other contingent liabilities; • continued liability for pre-closing activities of divested businesses or certain post-closing liabilities which we may agree to assume as part of the transaction in which a particular business is divested; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering into markets in which we have no, or limited, prior experience; • incurrence of significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; • significant diversion of management’s attention from our core business and diversion of key employees’ time and resources; • inability to retain key customers, distributors, vendors and other business partners of the acquired business; and • potential loss of our key employees or the key employees of an acquired organization. Financing for future acquisitions may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate for any of our businesses, we may not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully, finance the acquisition or integrate the acquired business, products, technologies or employees into our existing business and operations. Future acquisitions and divestitures may not be well-received by the investment community, which may cause the value of our stock to fall. We cannot ensure that we 19 Table of Contents will be able to identify or complete any acquisition or divestiture in the future, and our senior secured credit facility and the indenture related to the notes impose some restrictions on our ability to make and finance additional acquisitions or divestitures. If we acquire businesses, new products or technologies in the future, we may incur significant acquisition-related costs. Divestitures could cause similar problems to occur. In addition, we may be required to amortize significant amounts of identifiable intangible assets and we may record significant amounts of goodwill that will be subject to annual testing for impairment. We have in the past and may in the future be required to write off all or part of one or more of these investments that could harm our operating results. If we consummate one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration consists of stock or other securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership could be significantly diluted. If we were to proceed with one or more significant future acquisitions in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash. Acquisition activities could also cause operating margins to fall depending upon the financial models of the businesses acquired. Our strategic investments may involve joint development, joint marketing, or entry into new business ventures, or new technology licensing. Any joint development efforts may not result in the successful introduction of any new products by us or a third party, and any joint marketing efforts may not result in increased demand for our products. Further, any current or future strategic acquisitions and investments by us may not allow us to enter and compete effectively in new markets or enhance our business in our existing markets. We currently hold minority equity interests in a few privately held companies. There is no active trading market for the securities of privately held companies and our investments in them are illiquid at best. We have written off substantially all of our investments in such privately held companies and we may never have an opportunity to realize any return on our investments in them. We expect to exit non-strategic business lines and divest non-strategic assets in order to enhance our focus on the execution of our business with respect to our core strategic assets business plan. Such exit activities may not occur on the timeframes desired by management, or may not occur on terms favorable to us, which may impact management’s focus on its strategic assets and may also impact our ability to support our debt obligations. Covenants in our debt agreements restrict our business in many ways and if we do not effectively manage our covenants, our financial conditions and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our credit facilities contain various covenants that limit our ability and/or our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur or assume liens or additional debt or provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; • issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; • pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; • make loans, investments and capital expenditures; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions from our subsidiaries; • sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. 20 Table of Contents In addition, our senior secured credit facility contains restrictive covenants and requires us to maintain specified financial ratios. Our ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet those tests. In addition, we have historically had less debt with fewer covenants. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls to comply with these covenants, we may be in breach. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facility and/or our other indebtedness. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit facility to be immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. A significant portion of our assets are subject to liens. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facility accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facility and our other indebtedness. Our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility are, and are expected to continue to be, at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our debt obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt from continuing operations of approximately $887.6 million, consisting of $100.0 million of senior notes, $547.3 million of borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, $0.3 million of capital lease obligations and $240.0 million of convertible notes. We may also incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness may: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the notes and our other indebtedness; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; • limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and • increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting its operations, many of which are beyond our control. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to 21 Table of Contents meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets, use the proceeds from any disposition of assets and to refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. Macrovision Solutions Corporation’s subsidiaries, including Macrovision Corporation and Gemstar-TV Guide International, own a significant portion of our assets and conduct substantially all of our operations. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness is dependent, to a significant extent, on the generation of cash flow by the subsidiaries, including Macrovision Corporation and Gemstar-TV Guide International, and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are guarantors or a co-issuer of our indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may still be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our credit agreements and indentures limit, but do not prohibit, us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with existing indebtedness, the holders of that indebtedness will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of our existing debt obligations in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations, may adversely affect our effective tax rates. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rates could be unfavorably affected by changes in tax laws or the interpretation of tax laws, by changes in the amount of revenue or earnings that we derive from international sources in countries with high or low statutory tax rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates could affect our future results of operations. In addition, federal, state, and foreign tax jurisdictions may examine our income tax returns, including income tax returns of acquired companies and acquired tax attributes included therein. We regularly assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. In making such assessments, we exercise judgment in estimating our provision for income taxes. While we believe our estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination from these examinations will not be materially different from that reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome from these examinations may have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits expected from the Gemstar acquisition. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated revenue opportunities from combining the businesses of Macrovision and Gemstar. Our management believes that combining its and Gemstar’s assets will provide each company’s customers, including consumer electronics manufacturers, operators of cable and satellite programming distribution systems, direct satellite broadcasters and web portals, 22 Table of Contents with new tools, services and technologies to allow their consumers to discover, acquire, manage and enjoy content and thus produce new revenue opportunities for our company. There can be no assurance, however, that the market will adopt our new tools, services and technologies, or that these revenue opportunities will be achieved. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. The combining of the two companies’ businesses, even if achieved in an efficient, effective and timely manner, may not result in better combined results of operations and financial condition than would have been achieved by each company independently. The failure to integrate successfully Macrovision’s and Gemstar’s businesses and operations may adversely affect our future results. Integrating the acquired business has been and will continue to be a complex, time-consuming and expensive process, and can impact the effectiveness of our internal controls. The integration process and other disruptions from the acquisition of Gemstar and divestitures of the TV Guide properties could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of Gemstar. Our management will continue to have to devote substantial resources and efforts to it, which could distract management from executing other strategic priorities of the combined company’s business. Our success is heavily dependent upon our proprietary technologies. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to continue to introduce proprietary solutions for digital content and technologies. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, nondisclosure and other contractual provisions, and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. Our patents, trademarks or copyrights may be challenged and invalidated or circumvented. Our patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength or be issued in all countries where products incorporating our technologies can be sold. We have filed applications to expand our patent claims and for improvement patents to extend the current expiration dates, however, expiration of some of our patents may harm our business. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, our business would be harmed. Others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technologies, duplicate our technologies or design around our patents. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. Despite efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use aspects of processes and devices that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary information is difficult, and the steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies. Such competitive threats could harm our business. We may initiate patent infringement or patent interference actions or other litigation to protect our intellectual property, which could be costly and harm our business. We are currently engaged in litigation, and litigation may be necessary in the future, to enforce our patents and other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We, and many of our current and potential competitors, dedicate substantial resources to protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights, especially patents in the area of digital rights management technologies. We believe that companies will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of these technologies and the associated rights are likely to arise in the future and may be very costly. Companies in the technology and content-related industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. We may be forced to litigate to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation could be very costly, could distract our management from focusing on operating our business, and might ultimately be unsuccessful. The existence and/or outcome of such litigation could harm our business. 23 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims or other litigation, which are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our internally developed technology, technology we have acquired or technology we license from third parties may infringe other third parties’ proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. We could be required to spend significant amounts of time and money to defend ourselves against such claims. If any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions, or stop distributing our products and services while we re-engineer them or seek licenses to necessary technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms or at all. We could also be subject to claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims made against our customers and strategic partners, which could increase our defense costs and potential damages. For example, we have received notices and lawsuits from certain customers requesting indemnification in patent-related lawsuits. We evaluate the requests and assess whether we believe we are obligated to provide such indemnification to such customers on a case by case basis. Customers or strategic partners making such requests could become unwilling or hesitant to do business with us if we decline such requests. An adverse determination with respect to such requests or in any of these events described above could require us to change our business practices and have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Litigation could harm our business and result in: • substantial settlement or related costs, including indemnification of customers; • diversion of management and technical resources; • either our customers discontinuing to use or ourselves discontinuing to sell infringing products; • our expending significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; and • our obtaining licenses to infringed technology. We are involved in the business of protection and enablement of audio, video and software content on the Internet. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, an increasing level of litigation to determine the applicability of current laws to, and impact of new technologies on, the use and distribution of content over the Internet and through new devices. As we develop products and services that protect, provide or enable the provision of content in such ways, the risk of litigation against us may increase. For our business to succeed, we need to attract and retain qualified employees and manage our employee base effectively. Our success depends on our ability to hire and retain qualified employees and to manage our employee base effectively. Because of the specialized nature of our business, our future success will depend upon our continuing ability to identify, attract, train and retain other highly skilled managerial, technical, sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we enter new markets. Competition for people with the skills that we require is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area where our headquarters are located and Los Angeles where we have significant operations, and the high cost of living in these areas makes our recruiting and compensation costs higher. In particular, declines in technology market values and the resultant impact on our stock price have in the past and may in the future impair our ability to effectively use stock options as an incentive to hire and retain employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We must establish and maintain licensing relationships with companies to build and support a worldwide content value management ecosystem and to expand our business, and failure to do so could harm our business prospects. Our future success will depend upon our ability to establish and maintain licensing relationships with companies in related business fields, including: • DVD and CD authoring facilities, mastering houses and replicators; • DVD and CD authoring tools software companies and replicator test equipment suppliers; • DVD and CD hardware manufacturers; • videocassette duplicators; • semiconductor and equipment manufacturers; • operators of digital PPV and VOD networks; • consumer electronics, digital PPV/VOD set-top hardware manufacturers, and PC manufacturers; • DRM suppliers; and • Internet portals and other digital distribution companies. Substantially all of our license agreements are non-exclusive, and therefore our licensees are free to enter into similar agreements with third parties, including our competitors. Our licensees may develop or pursue alternative technologies either on their own or in collaboration with others, including our competitors. Some of our third party license arrangements will require that we license others’ technologies and/or integrate our solutions with others. In addition, we rely on third parties to report usage and volume information to us. Delays, errors or omissions in this information could harm our business. If these third parties choose not to support integration efforts or delay the integration, our business could be harmed. It may be more difficult for us, in the future, to have our technologies adopted as individual industry standards to the extent that entertainment industry participants collaborate on the development of industry standard technologies. Increasingly, standards-setting organizations are adopting or establishing technology standards for use in a wide-range of consumer electronics products. As a result, it is more difficult for individual companies to have their technologies adopted wholesale as an informal industry standard. In addition, increasingly there are a large number of companies, including companies that typically compete against one another, involved in the development of new technologies for use in consumer entertainment products. As a result, these companies often license their collective intellectual property rights as a group, making it more difficult for any single company to have its technologies adopted widely as a de facto industry standard or to have its technologies adopted as an exclusive, explicit industry standard. Examples of this include MPEG-LA (DRM licensing); Blu-ray DVD (high definition DVD format); and Digital Living Network Alliance (DLNA) and the Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) Forum (interoperability of consumer electronics devices). If our technologies are not supported by these standards bodies or patent pools, it may be more difficult for us to grow our business in the future. Our major customers may have a large influence on industry standards and the widespread adoption of new technologies. The selection of alternative technologies to ours or to those on which our technologies operate would harm our business. Continued consolidation of the cable and satellite broadcasting industry could adversely affect existing agreements; the impact of these changes is not clear. We have entered into agreements with a large number of cable MSOs and DBS providers for the licensing or distribution of our technology, products and services. If, as expected, consolidation of the cable and satellite 25 Table of Contents broadcasting industry continues, some of these agreements may be affected by mergers, acquisitions or system swaps. We cannot assure you that any measures that we have taken to protect us against any negative consequences resulting from those transactions will be effective. Also, a service provider that files a bankruptcy petition or otherwise restructures or liquidates could avoid its future obligations and discharge its past payment obligations under the agreement in some circumstances. Any such events could have a material adverse effect on the amount of revenue we receive under these agreements. The market for IPG advertising and our ability to fully exploit it may not develop. The market for IPG advertising is at an early stage of development and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in our efforts to develop IPG advertising as an advertising medium widely accepted by consumers and advertisers. In addition, MSO, DBS and Internet protocol television, or IPTV, providers who have a patent license from us are not required to provide advertising in their IPG. Therefore our ability to derive advertising revenues from IPGs distributed by our patent licensees is also dependent on the implementation of IPG advertising by such licensees. Limitations on control of joint ventures may adversely impact our operations. We hold our interests in certain businesses, including Guideworks and IPG Inc., as a joint venture or in partnership with nonaffiliated third parties. As a result of such arrangements, we may be unable to control the operations, strategies and financial decisions of such joint venture or partnership entities which could in turn result in limitations on our ability to implement strategies that we may favor, or to cause dividends or distributions to be paid. In addition, our ability to transfer our interests in businesses owned with third parties is limited under certain joint venture, partnership or similar agreements. We have limited control over existing and potential customers’ and licensees’ decisions to include our technology in their product offerings. In general, we are dependent on our customers and licensees—including producers and distributors of content for films and videos—to incorporate our technology into their products. Although we have license agreements with many of these companies, many of these license agreements do not require any minimum purchase commitments, or are on a non-exclusive basis, or do not require incorporation of our technology in their products. If our customers were to determine that the benefits of our technology do not justify the cost of licensing the technology, then demand for our technology would decline. Furthermore, while we may be successful in obtaining mandatory status for our technology in one or more industry standards, there is no guarantee that products associated with these standards will be successful in the market. Our licensees and other manufacturers might not utilize our technology in the future. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. Our relationships with entertainment industry participants are particularly important to our businesses, and if we fail to maintain such relationships our business could be materially harmed. If we fail to maintain and expand our relationships with a broad range of participants throughout the entertainment industry, including motion picture studios, broadcasters and manufacturers of CE products, our business and prospects could be materially harmed. Relationships have historically played an important role in the entertainment industries that we serve. If we fail to maintain and strengthen these relationships, these entertainment industry participants may not purchase and use our technologies, which could materially harm our business and prospects. In addition to directly providing a substantial portion of our revenue, these relationships are also critical to our ability to have our technologies adopted as industry standards. Moreover, if we fail to maintain our relationships, or if we are not able to develop relationships in new markets in which we intend to compete in the future, including markets for new technologies and expanding geographic markets, our business, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if major industry participants form strategic relationships that exclude us, our business and prospects could be materially adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents The success of our entertainment business depends on the continued use by major movie studios of, and market demand for, our video content protection technology. Historically, we have derived a large percentage of our net revenues and operating income from fees for the application of our patented video content protection technology to various video formats, including prerecorded videocassettes, DVDs, PPV and VOD, programs. Revenues from these fees will depend on (a) growth in the various media formats, including the Blu-ray format, (b) use of our video content protection technology on videocassettes, DVDs, digital PPV/VOD programs or PCs, and (c) pricing for our technology. To increase or maintain our market penetration, we must continue to persuade content owners that the cost of licensing our technology is outweighed by the increase in revenues that content owners and retailers gain as a result of using content protection, such as revenues from additional sales of the copy protected material or subsequent revenues from other distribution channels. Our ability to expand our markets into digital PPV/VOD and other venues will depend in large part on the support of the major motion picture studios in advocating the incorporation and activation of copy protection technology in the hardware and network infrastructure required to distribute such video programming. Consumers may react negatively to copy protected PPV or VOD programming because they may feel they are entitled to copy, having in the past routinely copied for later viewing analog cable and satellite-delivered subscription television, PPV programs and recorded music. If there is consumer dissatisfaction that cannot be managed or if there are technical capability or other problems, our business could be harmed. Any decline in demand for our video content protection technology, including a change of video content protection policy by the major motion picture studios, a decline in sales of prerecorded videocassettes and DVDs that are encoded with our video content protection technology due to a shift from physical media distribution to digital distribution or otherwise, additional declines in our average unit royalties, as well as loss of demand due to consumers choosing to utilize peer-to peer services and not purchasing authentic packaged media or authorized DRM downloads, could adversely affect our business. If our customers are unable to prevent their content from becoming available through piracy sources, they may consider our technology to be less valuable, and if one or more of the motion picture studios were to withdraw its support for our content protection technologies or otherwise determine not to copy protect a significant portion of prerecorded videocassettes, DVD or digital PPV/VOD programs, our business would be harmed. As our entertainment technologies customers try to minimize costs, they may decrease their content protection usage or negotiate decreases in their usage fees, which may result in a substantial decline in our entertainment related revenues. Studios face increased pressure to trim their DVD manufacturing expenses. This includes cutting back their content protection usage, as well as negotiated reductions in their usage fees. Diminishing margins that studios have been experiencing have contributed to a reduction in the prices we can charge them to include our video content protection technology in their products. As such, we have experienced a decline in our entertainment technologies’ revenue associated with DVDs in the last two years. In addition, some studios choose to copy protect selected titles, or choose to not use any copy protection, and their actions may influence other studios to do the same, which could harm our business. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may cause us to not be able to sustain our revenue levels or rate of revenue growth on a quarterly or annual basis and which may cause our common stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual revenues, expenses and operating results could vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. We may experience volatility in revenues which may cause us to not be able to sustain our revenue levels, or our rate of revenue growth, on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, we may be required to delay or extend recognition of revenue 27 Table of Contents on more complex licensing arrangements as required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Fluctuations in our operating results have in the past caused, and may in the future cause, the price of our common stock to decline. Other factors that could affect our operating results include: • the acceptance of our technologies by system operators and consumer electronics manufacturers; • expenses related to, and the financial impact of, possible acquisitions of other businesses and the integration of such businesses; • the timing and ability of signing high-value licensing agreements during a specific period; • the potential that we may not be in a position to anticipate a decline in revenues in any quarter until (i) late in the quarter due to the closing of new sales agreements late in the quarter or (ii) after the quarter ends due to the delay inherent in reporting from certain licensees; • the extent to which new content technologies or formats replace technologies to which our solutions are targeted; • adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other major economies in which we do business as a result of the threat of terrorism, military actions taken by the United States or its allies, or generally weak and uncertain economic and industry conditions Our quarterly operating results may also fluctuate depending upon when we receive royalty reports from certain licensees. We recognize a portion of our license revenue only after we receive royalty reports from our licensees regarding the manufacture of their products that incorporate our technologies. As a result, the timing of our revenue is dependent upon the timing of our receipt of those reports, some of which are not delivered until late in the quarter or after the end of the quarter. This may put us in a position of not being able to anticipate a decline in revenues in any given quarter. In addition, it is not uncommon for royalty reports to include corrective or retroactive royalties that cover extended periods of time. Furthermore, there have been times in the past when we have recognized an unusually large amount of licensing revenue from a licensee in a given quarter because not all of our revenue recognition criteria were met in prior periods. This can result in a large amount of licensing revenue from a licensee being recorded in a given quarter that is not necessarily indicative of the amounts of licensing revenue to be received from that licensee in future quarters, thus causing fluctuations in our operating results. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from international sales. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with our international business could have an adverse effect on our operating results. We expect that international and export sales will continue to represent a substantial portion of our net revenues for the foreseeable future. Our future growth will depend to a large extent on worldwide acceptance and deployment of our solutions. To the extent that foreign governments impose restrictions on importation of programming, technology or components from the United States, the demand for our solutions in these markets could diminish. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, which increases the risk of unauthorized use of our technologies. Such laws also may not be conducive to copyright protection of digital content, which may make our content protection technology less effective and reduce the demand for it. Because we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to the risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: • foreign government regulation; • changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; 28 Table of Contents • changes in, or imposition of, foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • changes in, or weakening of copyright and intellectual property (patent) laws; • difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; • tariffs or taxes and other trade barriers and restrictions; • fluctuations in our net effective income tax rate driven by changes in the percentage of revenues that we derive from international sources; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic condition, including changes resulting from the threat of terrorism; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our business could be materially adversely affected if foreign markets do not continue to develop, if we do not receive additional orders to supply our technologies or products for use by foreign system operators, CE manufacturers and PPV/VOD providers or if regulations governing our international businesses change. Any changes to the statute or the regulations with respect to export of encryption technologies could require us to redesign our products or technologies or prevent us from selling our products and licensing our technologies internationally. We have made and expect to make significant investments in infrastructure which, if ineffective, may adversely affect our business results. We have made and expect to make significant investments in infrastructure, tools, systems, technologies and content, including initiatives relating to digital asset and rights management and data warehouses, aimed to create, assist in the development or operation of, or enhance our ability to deliver innovative products and services across multiple media, digital and emerging platforms. These investments may ultimately cost more than is anticipated, their implementation may take longer than expected and they may not meaningfully contribute to or result in successful new or enhanced products, services or technologies. Some terms of our agreements with licensees could be interpreted in a manner that could adversely affect licensing revenue payable to us under those agreements. Some of our license agreements contain “most favored nation” clauses. These clauses typically provide that if we enter into an agreement with another licensee on more favorable terms, we must offer some of those terms to our existing licensees. We have entered into a number of license agreements with terms that differ in some respects from those contained in other agreements. These agreements may obligate us to provide different, more favorable, terms to licensees, which could, if applied, result in lower revenues or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. While we believe that we have appropriately complied with the most favored nation terms included in our license agreements, these contracts are complex and other parties could reach a different conclusion that, if correct, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our products could be susceptible to errors, defects, or unintended performance problems that could result in lost revenues, liability or delayed or limited market acceptance. We offer and develop a series of complex content management and software solutions, which we license to customers. The performance of these products typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. Due to the complexity of these products offered and developed, and despite our quality assurance testing, the products may contain undetected defects or errors that may affect the proper use or application of such products by the customer. Because our products are embedded in digital content and other 29 Table of Contents software, our solutions’ performance could unintentionally jeopardize our customers’ product performance. Any such defects, errors, or unintended performance problems in existing or new products, and any inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner, could result in loss of revenue or market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, increased insurance costs and increased service, any of which could materially harm our business. In addition, we rely on the customer and third party replicators to properly use our products to protect the software and applications to which our technology may be applied. Any improper use or application of the software by the customer or the third party replicators may render our technologies useless and result in losses from claims arising out of such improper use of the products. Because customers rely on our products as used in their software and applications, defects or errors in our products may discourage customers from purchasing our products. These defects or errors could also result in product liability or warranty claims. Although we attempt to reduce the risk of losses resulting from these claims through warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability clauses in our agreements, these contractual provisions may not be enforceable in every instance. Furthermore, although we maintain errors and omissions insurance, this insurance may not adequately cover these claims. If a court refused to enforce the liability-limiting provisions of our contracts for any reason, or if liabilities arose that were not contractually limited or adequately covered by insurance, our business could be materially harmed. In protecting copyrights and other intellectual property rights of our customers, our products affect consumer use of our customers’ products. Consumers may view this negatively and discontinue or threaten to discontinue purchase or use of our customers’ products unless our customers stop using our technologies. This may cause a decline in demand for our products or legal actions against us by our customers or consumers. Government regulations may adversely affect our business. The satellite transmission, cable and telecommunications industries are subject to pervasive federal regulation, including FCC licensing and other requirements. These industries are also often subject to extensive regulation by local and state authorities. While these regulations do not apply directly to us, they affect cable television providers and other multi-channel video programming distributors, or MVPDs, which are the primary customers for certain of our products and services. FCC regulations prohibit MVPDs (except DBS providers) from deploying after July 1, 2007 consumer electronic navigation devices (e.g., set-top boxes) with combined security and non-security functions (the “integration ban”). The FCC recently granted a number of requests for waiver of the integration ban, and denied several petitions for waivers or deferrals. Petitions for reconsideration of the decisions denying waivers are pending before the FCC. Resolution of these petitions and other FCC action with respect to these issues could affect demand for IPGs incorporated into set-top boxes or consumer electronics devices. Legislative initiatives seeking to weaken copyright law or new governmental regulation or new interpretation of existing laws that cause resulting legal uncertainties could harm our business. Consumer rights advocates and other constituencies continuously challenge copyright law, notably the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998, or DMCA, through both legislative and judicial actions. Legal uncertainties surrounding the application of the DMCA may adversely affect our business. If copyright law is compromised, or devices that can circumvent our technology are permitted by law and become prevalent, this could result in reduced demand for our technologies, and our business would be harmed. Many laws and regulations are pending and may be adopted in the United States, individual states and local jurisdictions and other countries with respect to the Internet. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including copyright and other intellectual property rights, digital rights management, property ownership and taxation. These types of regulations are likely to differ between countries and other political and 30 Table of Contents geographic divisions. Other countries and political organizations are likely to impose or favor more and different regulation than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulations. In addition, state and local governments may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or stricter than federal regulations. Changes to or the interpretation of these laws could increase our costs, expose us to increased litigation risk, substantial defense costs and other liabilities or require us or our customers to change business practices. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and the adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, could materially and adversely affect our business. We may be subject to legal liability for the provision of third-party products, services or content. We periodically enter into arrangements to offer third-party products, services, content or advertising under our brands or via distribution on our websites or in our products or service offerings. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, content or advertising by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them. Our agreements with these parties may not adequately protect us from these potential liabilities. It is also possible that, if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us, including, for example, claims for intellectual property infringement. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even if the claims do not result in liability. If any of these claims results in liability, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business and our operating results. Business interruptions could adversely affect our future operating results. The provision of certain of our products and services depends on the continuing operation of communications and transmission systems and mechanisms, including satellite, cable, wire, over the air broadcast communications and transmission systems and mechanisms. These communication and transmission systems and mechanisms are subject to significant risks and any damage to or failure of these systems and mechanisms could result in an interruption of the provision of our products and services. Several of our major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other hostile acts, and other events beyond our control. The majority of our research and development activities, our corporate headquarters, our principal information technology systems, and other critical business operations are located near major seismic faults. Our operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made disaster that disrupts our business. The communications and transmission systems and mechanisms that we depend on are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. Our telephone and computer networks are subject to security and stability risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. Online business activities depend on the ability to transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely over private and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to transmit such information and data securely or reliably, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could harm our business. Online transmissions are subject to a number of security and stability risks, including: • our own or licensed encryption and authentication technology, and access and security procedures, may be compromised, breached or otherwise be insufficient to ensure the security of customer information or intellectual property; • we could experience unauthorized access, computer viruses, system interference or destruction, “denial of service” attacks and other disruptive problems, whether intentional or accidental, that may inhibit or prevent access to our websites or use of our products and services; • someone could circumvent our security measures and misappropriate our, our partners’ or our customers’ proprietary information or content or interrupt operations, or jeopardize our licensing arrangements, which are contingent on our sustaining appropriate security protections; 31 Table of Contents • our computer systems could fail and lead to service interruptions or down-time for our ecommerce web sites; or • we may need to grow, reconfigure or relocate our data centers in response to changing business needs, which may be costly and lead to unplanned disruptions of service. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation, and expose us to litigation or liability. Because some of our technologies and businesses are intended to inhibit use of or restrict access to our customers’ intellectual property, we may become the target of hackers or other persons whose use of or access to our customers’ intellectual property is affected by our technologies. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, hacker attacks or system malfunctions or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, attacks or failures. Our Internet-based product and service offerings rely on a variety of systems, networks and databases, many of which are maintained by us at our data centers. We do not have complete redundancy for all of our systems and we do not maintain real-time back-up of our data, so in the event of significant system disruption, particularly during peak periods, we could experience loss of data processing capabilities, which could cause us to lose customers and could harm our operating results. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect against “down time” for products and services, we do occasionally experience unplanned outages or technical difficulties. In order to provide our Internet-based products and services, we must protect the security of our systems, networks, databases and software. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could increase our operating costs and affect our ability to operate our business. We have a complex business that is international in scope. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are continually in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accountants on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we or our independent registered public accountants identify areas for further attention or improvement, implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. We have in the past identified, and may in the future identify, significant deficiencies in the design and operation of our internal controls, which have been or will in the future need to be remediated. Furthermore, our independent registered public accountants may interpret the Section 404 requirements and the related rules and regulations differently from how we interpret them, or our independent registered public accountants may not be satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or with the level at which these controls are documented, operated or reviewed in the future. Finally, in the event we make a significant acquisition, or a series of smaller acquisitions, we may face significant challenges in implementing the required processes and procedures in the acquired operations. As a result, our independent registered public accountants may decline or be unable to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or may issue a qualified report in the future. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements. 32 Table of Contents We will incur costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could affect our operating results. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses associated with corporate governance and public company reporting requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ. As long as the SEC requires the current level of compliance for public companies of our size, we expect these rules and regulations to require significant legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities time-consuming and costly. These rules and regulations may make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage than was previously available. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as our executive officers. We may be subject to assessment of sales and other taxes for the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services. We do not currently collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our products, license of technology or provision of services in states and countries other than those in which we have offices or employees. Our business would be harmed if one or more states or any foreign country required us to collect sales or other taxes from past sales of products, licenses of technology or provision of services, particularly because we would be unable to go back to customers to collect sales taxes for past sales and would likely have to pay such taxes out of our own funds. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and in the future could be, significantly affected by factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results; • announcements of technical innovations; • new products or new contracts; • announcements by competitors or their customers; • announcements by our customers; • governmental regulatory and copyright action; • developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; • announcements regarding acquisitions or divestitures; • announcements regarding litigation or regulatory matters; • changes in financial estimates or coverage by securities analysts; • changes in interest rates which affect the value of our investment portfolio; • changes in tax law or the interpretation of tax laws; and • general market conditions. Announcements by satellite television operators, cable television operators, major content providers such as the MPAA or others regarding consumer electronics business combinations, evolving industry standards, consumer rights activists’ “wins” in government regulations or the courts, motion picture production or distribution or other developments could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. 33 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our historic trading prices and price/earnings ratios, or those of technology companies in general, will be sustained. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, some companies have been named in class action suits. Further, the general stock market instability and economic uncertainty may adversely affect the global financial markets, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. We utilize non-GAAP reporting in our quarterly earnings press releases. We publish non-GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases along with a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to those measures compiled in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The reconciling items have adjusted GAAP net income and GAAP earnings per share for certain non-cash, non-operating or non-recurring items and are described in detail in each such quarterly earnings press release. We believe that this presentation may be more meaningful to investors in analyzing the results of operations and income generation as this is how our business is managed. The market price of our stock may fluctuate based on future non-GAAP results if investors base their investment decisions upon such non-GAAP financial measures. If we decide to curtail use of non-GAAP financial measures in our quarterly earnings press releases, the market price of our stock could be affected if investors analyze our performance in a different manner. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 