Item 1A. Risk factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications as well as oral forward looking statements made from time to time by our representatives. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks described below of which we are presently aware. Additional risks and uncertainties that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations, and historical results are not necessarily an indication of the future results. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Related to our Business and Industry Adverse general economic conditions could have a material impact on our business. Adverse overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending could impact our results of operations. Future economic conditions affecting disposable income such as employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, business conditions, stock market volatility, weather conditions, acts of terrorism, threats of war, and interest and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our products. If the economic conditions continue to be adverse or worsen, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business prospects could be harmed if solar energy is not widely adopted or sufficient demand for solar energy systems does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which solar energy will be widely adopted and the extent to which demand for solar energy systems will increase are uncertain. If solar energy does not achieve widespread adoption or demand for solar energy systems fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business at the rate we desire. In addition, demand for solar energy systems in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent or more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the demand for solar energy systems, including the following: Ø fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as changes in the price of oil and other fossil fuels; Ø availability of government subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; Ø cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar energy systems compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; Ø success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated solar and biomass; Ø availability of financing with economically attractive terms; Ø fluctuations in expenditures by purchasers of solar energy systems, which tend to decrease in slower economic environments and periods of rising interest rates and tighter credit; and Ø deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar renewable energy sources may negatively impact our business. The demand for our solar energy systems depends in part on the price of conventional energy, which affects return on investment resulting from the purchase of solar energy systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources could cause the demand for solar energy systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our business. Inexpensive prices for oil and other fossil fuels and electricity could also have a negative effect on our business. 10 Table of Contents The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy systems could reduce the demand for our products. Government subsidies are an important economic factor in the determination to purchase a solar energy system. Certain states, including California and Colorado, and certain localities and utilities offer incentives to offset a portion of the cost of qualified solar energy systems. These incentives can take many forms, including direct rebates, state tax credits, system performance payments and renewable energy credits, or RECs. The reduction or elimination of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in a significant reduction in demand for our solar energy systems, which would negatively impact our business. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the installation of solar energy systems, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar energy systems. The installation of solar energy systems is subject to oversight and regulation under local ordinances; building, zoning and fire codes; environmental protection regulation; utility interconnection requirements for metering; and other rules and regulations. We attempt to keep up-to-date about these requirements on a national, state and local level and must design and install our solar energy systems to comply with varying standards. Certain cities may have ordinances that prevent or increase the cost of installation of our solar energy systems. In addition, new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to the installation of solar energy systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems. Existing regulations and policies pertaining to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation and changes to these regulations and policies may deter the purchase and use of solar energy systems and negatively impact development of the solar energy industry. The market for solar energy systems is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies adopted by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. For example, metering caps currently exist in certain jurisdictions, which limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the electric grid. These regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified in the future in ways that could deter purchases of solar energy systems and investment in the research and development of solar energy technology. Another example is that without a mandated regulatory exception for solar energy systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. Such fees could increase the cost to our customers of using solar energy systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in net metering policies could also deter the purchase and use of solar energy systems. In addition, electricity generated by solar energy systems competes primarily with expensive peak hour electricity rates rather than with the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require solar energy systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of electricity. Our inability to respond to changing technologies and issues presented by new technologies could harm our business. The solar energy industry is subject to technological change. If we rely on products and technologies that are not attractive to customers, or if we are unable to respond appropriately to changing technologies and changes in product function and quality, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining a significant market share. In addition, any new technologies utilized in our solar energy systems may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may harm our business. We derive all of the revenue from our solar energy integration services from sales in two states. We currently derive all of the revenue from our solar energy integration services from projects in California and Colorado. This geographic concentration exposes us to growth rates, economic conditions, and other factors that may be specific to those states to which we would be less subject if we were more geographically diversified. The growth of our business will require us to expand our operations in California and Colorado and to commence operations in other states. Any geographic expansion efforts that we may make may not be successful, which would limit our growth opportunities. Our success may depend in part on our ability to continue to make successful acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we plan to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions in our current markets and in new geographic markets. We acquired several businesses over the last few years. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Our acquisition strategy involves significant risks, including the following: 11 Table of Contents Ø limitations on our cash available for acquisitions, Ø market prices of our Class A common stock, to the extent we elect to use stock as all or part of the consideration for acquisitions, Ø our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices, Ø our ability to complete successfully the acquisitions of candidates that we identify, Ø our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities, Ø increases in asking prices by acquisition candidates to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria, Ø diversion of management’s attention to expansion efforts, Ø unanticipated costs and contingent liabilities associated with acquisitions, Ø failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results, Ø our failure to retain key customers or personnel of acquired businesses and Ø difficulties entering markets in which we have no or limited experience. These risks, as well as other circumstances that often accompany expansion through acquisitions, could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, the size, timing and success of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Consequently, our operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our failure to integrate the operations of acquired businesses successfully into our operations or to manage our anticipated growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In order to pursue a successful acquisition strategy, we must integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our revenue and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. We may be unable to complete effectively the integration of the management, operations, facilities and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional revenue as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. Our rate of growth and operating performance may suffer if we fail to manage acquired businesses profitably without substantial additional costs or operational problems or to implement effectively combined growth and operating strategies. We may require significant additional funds, the amount of which will depend upon our working capital and general corporate needs and the size, timing and structure of future acquisitions. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to operate or expand our business and adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Any borrowings made to finance future acquisitions or for operations could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions or increases in interest rates on future borrowings. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. In addition, our operations may not generate sufficient cash for our acquisition plans. The extent to which we would be able or willing to use our equity to consummate future acquisitions will depend on the market price of our equity from time to time and the willingness of potential sellers to accept our equity as full or partial payment. Using our equity for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to our shareholders. To the extent that we are unable to use our equity to make future acquisitions, our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital for this purpose through debt or equity financings. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and growth prospects. The loss of or failure to hire additional personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and our ability to expand. The expansion of our business could place a significant strain on our managerial, financial and personnel resources, particularly given our current reliance on our Chairman, Jirka Rysavy, who also is the Chairman of Gaiam. To reach our goals, we must successfully recruit, train, motivate and retain additional employees, including management and technical personnel, integrate new employees into our overall operations and enhance our financial and accounting systems, controls and reporting systems. While we believe we have 12 Table of Contents personnel sufficient for the current requirements of our business, expansion of our business could require us to employ additional personnel. The loss of personnel or our failure to hire additional personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and our ability to expand. Our success depends on the value of our Real Goods brand. We depend on the name recognition of our Real Goods brand in our marketing efforts. Maintaining and building recognition of our brand are important to expanding our customer base. If the value of our brand were adversely affected, our ability to attract customers would be negatively impacted and our growth could be impaired. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for the components used in our solar energy systems. We rely on third-party suppliers for components used in our solar energy systems. During 2009, Sharp, Kyocera, Sanyo, and SunPower accounted for over 90% of our purchases of solar PV modules; and SMA and Enphase accounted for over 90% of our purchases of inverters. The failure of our suppliers to supply us with components in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could result in lost orders, delay our project schedules and harm our operating results and business expansion efforts. Our orders with certain of our suppliers may represent a very small portion of their total business. As a result, these suppliers may not give priority to our business, leading to potential delays in or cancellation of our orders. If any of our suppliers were to fail to supply our needs on a timely basis or to cease providing us key components we use, we would be required to secure alternative sources of supply. We may have difficulty securing alternative sources of supply in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. Shortages in the supply of silicon could adversely affect the availability and cost of the solar PV modules used in our solar energy systems. Shortages of silicon could adversely affect the availability and cost of the solar PV modules we use in our solar energy systems. Manufacturers of solar PV modules depend upon the availability and pricing of silicon, one of the primary materials used in the manufacture of solar PV modules. The worldwide market for silicon from time to time experiences a shortage of supply, primarily because of demand for silicon by the semiconductor industry. Shortages of silicon cause the prices for solar PV modules to increase and supplies to become difficult to obtain. While we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of solar PV modules to satisfy our needs to date, this may not be the case in the future. Future increases in the price of silicon could result in an increase in costs to us, price increases to our customers or reduced margins. Because the solar energy system installation market is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may face the loss of market share or reduced margins. The solar energy system installation market is highly competitive and fragmented with low barriers to entry. We currently compete with a large number of relatively small installers and integrators, some of which do not have extensive industry experience and may lack adequate systems and capital, but some of which benefit from operating efficiencies or from having lower overhead, which enables them to offer lower prices. As the solar energy industry expands and industry consolidation occurs, we are more likely to encounter competition from larger companies, some of which may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we do. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of factors outside of our control, including the following: Ø the ownership by competitors of proprietary tools to customize solar energy systems to the needs of particular customers, Ø the price at which competitors offer comparable products, Ø the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to customer needs and Ø integrator technologies. Competition in the solar energy system installation market may increase in the future as a result of low barriers to entry. Increased industry competition could result in reductions in price, margins, and market share and in greater competition for qualified personnel. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively. Our failure to meet customer expectations in the performance of our services, and the risks and liabilities associated with placing our employees and technicians in our customers’ homes and businesses could give rise to claims against us. Our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in the performance of our services could damage our reputation or result in claims against us. In addition, we are subject to various risks and liabilities associated with our employees and technicians providing installation services in the homes and businesses of our customers, including possible claims of errors and omissions, harassment, theft of customer property, criminal activity and other claims. 13 Table of Contents Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. As a seller of consumer products, we may face product liability claims in the event that use of our solar energy systems results in injuries. Because solar energy systems produce electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. If such injuries or claims of injuries were to occur, we could incur monetary damages and our business could be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us also could result in potentially significant monetary damages and, if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, could require us to make significant payments from our own resources. We may be subject to unexpected warranty expenses or service claims that could reduce our profits. As a result of the length of the warranty periods we provide, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have completed the installation of a solar energy system. Our current standard warranty for our installation services includes a 10-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship. In addition, most manufacturers of solar PV modules offer a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance. Although we maintain a warranty reserve for potential warranty or service claims and we have not had material warranty claims in the past, claims in excess of our reserve could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to predict accurately future warranty claims could result in unexpected volatility in our financial condition. We rely on communications and shipping networks to deliver our products. Given our emphasis on customer service, the efficient and uninterrupted operation of order-processing and fulfillment functions is critical to our catalog and Internet business. To maintain a high level of customer service, we rely on a number of third-party service providers, such as delivery companies, telecommunications companies and printers. Any interruption in services from our principal third-party service providers, including delays or disruptions resulting from labor disputes, power outages, human error, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, products that we source overseas must be shipped to our distribution center by freight carriers, and a work stoppage or political unrest could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our customer orders. An increase in interest rates or tight credit markets could make it difficult for customers to finance the cost of solar energy systems and could reduce demand for our services and products. Some of our prospective customers may depend on debt financing, such as home equity loans, or leasing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase a solar energy system. Third-party financing sources specifically for solar energy systems are currently limited. The lack of financing sources, limitations on available credit or an increase in interest rates could make it difficult or more costly for our potential customers to secure the financing necessary to purchase a solar energy system on favorable terms, or at all, thus lowering demand for our services and products and negatively impacting our business. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: Ø actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; Ø regulatory, legislative or other developments affecting us or the solar energy industry generally; Ø changes in expectations relating to our services and products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers; Ø market conditions and trends within the solar energy industry; Ø acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; Ø litigation involving us, our industry or both; Ø introductions of new technological innovations, new services or products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; Ø the gain or loss of significant customers; 14 Table of Contents Ø recruitment or departure of key personnel; Ø our ability to execute our business plan; Ø volume and timing of customer orders; Ø price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; Ø changes in investor perception; Ø the level and quality of any research analyst coverage of our Class A common stock; Ø changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; Ø the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; Ø trading volume of our Class A common stock or the sale of such stock by Gaiam, our management team or directors; and Ø economic and other external factors that impact purchasing decisions of our potential customers. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies and industries. These fluctuations may include a so-called “bubble market” in which investors temporarily raise the price of the stocks of companies in certain industries, such as the renewable energy industry, to unsustainable levels. These market fluctuations may significantly affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, shareholders would have to sell some or all of their stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Any determination to pay dividends in the future on our Class A common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Our business is subject to reporting requirements that continue to evolve and change, which could continue to require significant compliance effort and resources. Because our common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NASDAQ, periodically issue new requirements and regulations and legislative bodies also review and revise applicable laws such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As interpretation and implementation of these laws and rules and promulgation of new regulations continues, we will continue to be required to commit significant financial and managerial resources and incur additional expenses. Risk Factors Related to our Relationship with Gaiam Gaiam controls Real Goods, and Gaiam’s interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other shareholders. Gaiam holds approximately 55% of the currently outstanding shares of our common stock, consisting of 7,846,707 shares of our Class A common stock and 2,153,293 shares of our Class B common stock. The holders of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock have substantially similar rights, preferences, and privileges except with respect to voting and conversion rights and other protective provisions. Each share of Class B common stock has ten votes per share, and each share of Class A common stock has one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock is convertible at any time into one share of Class A common stock. In addition, if Gaiam transfers shares of our Class B common stock, it must elect whether or not to transfer the shares as Class B common stock or convert those shares into Class A common stock. The Class A common stock is not convertible. Because of Gaiam’s voting control of our stock, Gaiam will be able to exert substantial influence over our company and control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, increasing our authorized capital stock, financing activities, a merger or sale of our assets and the number of shares available for issuance under our Incentive Plan. Our articles of incorporation provide that our board of directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock, subject only to the approval of holders of our Class B common stock. As a result of Gaiam’s control, no change of control of our company can occur without Gaiam’s consent. Our Chairman, Jirka Rysavy, who is also the Chairman of Gaiam, currently owns approximately 27% of the outstanding equity, and in excess of 50% of the voting power, of Gaiam. 15 Table of Contents Gaiam’s and Mr. Rysavy’s voting control may discourage transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which a holder of our Class A common stock might otherwise receive a premium for our shares over the then current market price. Gaiam is not prohibited from selling a controlling interest in our company to a third party and may do so without shareholder approval and without providing for a purchase of other shares of Class A common stock. Accordingly, shares of Class A common stock may be worth less than they would be if Gaiam did not maintain voting control over us. Our historical financial information as a business conducted by Gaiam may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. Our historical financial information for periods prior to our initial public offering do not reflect what our financial position, operating results or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the historical periods presented. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our consolidated financial statements include amounts for certain corporate functions historically provided by Gaiam, including costs of fulfillment, systems, finance and other administrative services, and income taxes. These expense allocations were developed on the basis of what we and Gaiam considered to be reasonable prices for the utilization of services provided or the benefits received by us. The historical financial information in our audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements may not be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, changes in equity and cash flows would have been had we been a separate stand-alone entity during the periods presented or will be in the future. We have not made adjustments to reflect many significant changes that occurred in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from Gaiam, including changes in our employee base, changes in our tax structure, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a publicly traded, stand-alone company, such as audit fees, directors and officers insurance costs and compliance costs. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we or Gaiam terminate our intercorporate services agreement, or if we are unable to establish on a cost-effective basis our own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration or termination of our intercorporate services agreement with Gaiam. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into an intercorporate services agreement to retain the ability for specified periods to use certain Gaiam resources. This agreement automatically renews on a quarterly basis. Any decision by us to terminate this agreement would be approved by disinterested members of our management and board of directors under our procedures regarding related party transactions. In connection with the expiration or termination of this agreement, we will need to create our own administrative and other support systems or contract with third parties to replace Gaiam’s services. These services may not be provided at the same level as when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Gaiam, and we may not be able to obtain the same benefits that we received prior to the separation. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and after our agreement with Gaiam expires or is terminated, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as we currently have with Gaiam. Any failure or significant downtime in our own administrative systems or in Gaiam’s administrative systems during the transitional period could result in unexpected costs, impact our results or prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees and performing other administrative services on a timely basis. Our inability to resolve any disputes that arise between us and Gaiam with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may result in a reduction of our revenue, and such disputes may also result in claims for indemnification. Disputes may arise between Gaiam and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including the following: Ø labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Gaiam; Ø employee retention and recruiting; Ø business combinations involving us; Ø pricing for shared and transitional services; Ø sales or distributions by Gaiam of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; Ø the nature, quality and pricing of services Gaiam has agreed to provide us; and Ø business opportunities that may be attractive to both Gaiam and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. In addition, we have indemnification obligations under the tax, intercorporate services and registration rights agreements with Gaiam, and disputes between us and Gaiam may result in claims for indemnification. However, we do not currently expect that these indemnification obligations will materially affect our potential liability compared to what it would be if we did not enter into these agreements with Gaiam. 16 Table of Contents Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Gaiam common stock, options to acquire Gaiam common stock and positions with Gaiam. Some of our directors and executive officers own Gaiam common stock and options to purchase Gaiam common stock. In addition, some of our directors are also directors and/or executive officers of Gaiam. Ownership of Gaiam common stock and options to purchase Gaiam common stock by our directors and officers and the presence of directors and executive officers of Gaiam on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both us and Gaiam. For example, corporate opportunities may arise that are applicable or complementary to both of our businesses and that each business would be free to pursue, such as the potential acquisition of a particular business or technology focused on environmental sustainability including renewable energy sources, energy efficiency or energy use reduction. However, we understand that Gaiam does not intend to acquire businesses that are focused on solar energy. We have not established at this time any procedural mechanisms to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest of these directors and officers and expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, will determine how to address any actual or perceived conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis. If any corporate opportunity arises and if our directors and officers do not pursue it on our behalf, we may not become aware of, and may potentially lose, a significant business opportunity. Possible future sales of shares by Gaiam could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, even if our business is doing well. Gaiam may sell any or all of the shares of common stock owned by it from time to time for any reason. Under a registration rights agreement between us and Gaiam, Gaiam has the right to require us to register the shares of Class A common stock it owns and the shares it may acquire upon conversion of its shares of Class B common stock to facilitate the possible sale of such shares. Although we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of Class A common stock by Gaiam would have on the market price prevailing from time to time, sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock or the availability of such shares for sale could adversely affect prevailing market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None 