Item 1A. Risk factors We wish to caution you that there are risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different from those indicated by forward looking statements that we make from time to time in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, reports, proxy statements, registration statements and other written communications as well as oral forward looking statements made from time to time by our representatives. These risks and uncertainties include those risks described below of which we are presently aware. Historical results are not necessarily an indication of the future results. The cautionary statements below discuss important factors that could cause our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows to be materially adversely affected. Risk Factors Related to our Business and Industry The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy systems could reduce the demand for our products. Government subsidies are an important economic factor in the determination to purchase a solar energy system. Certain states, localities and utilities offer incentives to offset a portion of the cost of qualified solar energy systems. These incentives can take many forms, including direct rebates, state tax credits, system performance payments and renewable energy credits, or RECs. The reduction or elimination of such incentives or delays or interruptions in the implementation of favorable federal or state laws could substantially increase the cost of our systems to our customers, resulting in a significant reduction in demand for our solar energy systems, which would negatively impact our business. 9 Table of Contents Adverse general economic conditions could have a material impact on our business. Adverse overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending could impact our results of operations. Future economic conditions affecting disposable income such as employment levels, consumer confidence, credit availability, business conditions, stock market volatility, weather conditions, acts of terrorism, threats of war, and interest and tax rates could reduce consumer spending or cause consumers to shift their spending away from our products. If the economic conditions continue to be adverse or worsen, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial condition. The ongoing financial crisis and the loss of confidence in the stock market has increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. Increases in funding costs and limitations on our access to liquidity could have a negative impact on our earnings and our ability to consummate additional acquisitions. In addition, the deteriorating general economic conditions in the United States has caused a drop in consumer spending in general, and discretionary spending in particular. This has caused a decline in the number of purchases of solar energy systems. Overall, the economic environment during our 2011 fiscal year has been slightly adverse for our business compared to the previous year and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Until they do, we expect our results of operations to be slightly adversely affected. Our business prospects could be harmed if solar energy is not widely adopted or sufficient demand for solar energy systems does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate. The solar energy market is at a relatively early stage of development, and the extent to which solar energy will be widely adopted and the extent to which demand for solar energy systems will increase are uncertain. If solar energy does not achieve widespread adoption or demand for solar energy systems fails to develop sufficiently, we may be unable to grow our business at the rate we desire. In addition, demand for solar energy systems in our targeted markets may not develop or may develop to a lesser extent or more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the demand for solar energy systems, including the following: • availability of government and utility company subsidies and incentives to support the development of the solar energy industry; • fluctuations in economic and market conditions that affect the viability of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources, such as changes in the price of oil and other fossil fuels; • cost-effectiveness, performance and reliability of solar energy systems compared with conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products; • success of other renewable energy generation technologies, such as hydroelectric, wind, geothermal, solar thermal, concentrated solar and biomass; • availability of financing with economically attractive terms; • fluctuations in expenditures by purchasers of solar energy systems, which tend to decrease in slower economic environments and periods of rising interest rates and tighter credit; and • deregulation of the electric power industry and the broader energy industry. A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or non-solar renewable energy sources may negatively impact our business. The demand for our solar energy systems depends in part on the price of conventional energy, which affects return on investment resulting from the purchase of solar energy systems. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the prices of conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources could cause the demand for solar energy systems to decline, which would have a negative impact on our business. Inexpensive prices for oil and other fossil fuels and electricity could also have a negative effect on our business. Existing regulations, and changes to such regulations, may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the installation of solar energy systems, which may significantly reduce demand for our solar energy systems. The installation of solar energy systems is subject to oversight and regulation under local ordinances; building, zoning and fire codes; environmental protection regulation; utility interconnection requirements for metering; and other rules and regulations. We attempt to keep up-to-date about these requirements on a national, state and local level and must design and install our solar energy systems to comply with varying standards. Certain jurisdictions may have ordinances that prevent or increase the cost of installation of our solar energy systems. In addition, new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to the installation of solar energy systems are unpredictable and may result in significant additional expenses or delays, which could cause a significant reduction in demand for solar energy systems. 10 Table of Contents For some of our projects, we recognize revenue on system installations on a percentage-of-completion basis and payments are due upon the achievement of contractual milestones, and any delay or cancellation of a project could adversely affect our business. For some of our projects, we recognize revenue on our system installations on a percentage-of-completion basis and, as a result, our revenue from these installations is driven by the performance of our contractual obligations, which is generally driven by timelines for the installation of our solar power systems at customer sites. This could result in unpredictability of revenue and, in the short term, a revenue decrease. As with any project-related business, there is the potential for delays within any particular customer project. Variation of project timelines and estimates may impact the amount of revenue recognized in a particular period. In addition, certain customer contracts may include payment milestones due at specified points during a project. Because we must invest substantial time and incur significant expense in advance of achieving milestones and the receipt of payment, failure to achieve milestones could adversely affect our business and cash flows. Existing regulations and policies pertaining to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation and changes to these regulations and policies may deter the purchase and use of solar energy systems and negatively impact development of the solar energy industry. The market for solar energy systems is heavily influenced by foreign, federal, state and local government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies adopted by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and technical interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. For example, metering caps currently exist in certain jurisdictions, which limit the aggregate amount of power that may be sold by solar power generators into the electric grid. These regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified in the future in ways that could deter purchases of solar energy systems and investment in the research and development of solar energy technology. Without a mandated regulatory exception for solar energy systems, utility customers are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. Such fees could increase the cost to our customers of using solar energy systems and make them less desirable, thereby harming our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in net metering policies could also deter the purchase and use of solar energy systems. In addition, electricity generated by solar energy systems competes primarily with expensive peak hour electricity rates rather than with the less expensive average price of electricity. Modifications to the peak hour pricing policies of utilities, such as to a flat rate, would require solar energy systems to achieve lower prices in order to compete with the price of utility generated electricity. Our inability to respond to changing technologies and issues presented by new technologies could harm our business. The solar energy industry is subject to technological change. If we rely on products and technologies that are not attractive to customers, or if we are unable to respond appropriately to changing technologies and changes in product function and quality, we may not be successful in capturing or retaining a significant market share. In addition, any new technologies utilized in our solar energy systems may not perform as expected or as desired, in which event our adoption of such products or technologies may harm our business. We derive the majority of the revenue from our solar energy integration services from sales in west coast and northeast states. We currently derive the vast majority of our revenue from solar energy integration services from projects in fewer than ten states located in the west coast and northeast. This geographic concentration exposes us to increased risks associated with the growth rates, government regulations, economic conditions, and other factors that may be specific to those states to which we would be less subject if we were more geographically diversified. The growth of our business will require us to expand our operations in existing markets and to commence operations in other states. Any geographic expansion efforts that we may make may not be successful, which would limit our growth opportunities. Our business plan and proposed strategy have not been independently evaluated. We have not obtained any independent evaluation of our business plan and proposed business strategy. There can be no assurance that our business plan and proposed strategy will generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. Our success may depend in part on our ability to continue to make successful acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we plan to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions in our current markets and in new geographic markets. We acquired several businesses over the last few years. We cannot accurately predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts. Our acquisition strategy involves significant risks, including the following: • limitations on our cash available for acquisitions; • market prices of our Class A common stock, to the extent we elect to use stock as all or part of the consideration for acquisitions; 11 Table of Contents • our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices; • our ability to complete successfully the acquisitions of candidates that we identify; • our ability to compete effectively for available acquisition opportunities; • increases in asking prices by acquisition candidates to levels beyond our financial capability or to levels that would not result in the returns required by our acquisition criteria; • diversion of management’s attention to expansion efforts; • unanticipated costs and contingent liabilities associated with acquisitions; • failure of acquired businesses to achieve expected results; • our failure to retain key customers or personnel of acquired businesses; and • difficulties entering markets in which we have no or limited experience. These risks, as well as other circumstances that often accompany expansion through acquisitions, could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, the size, timing and success of any future acquisitions may cause substantial fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. Consequently, our operating results for any quarter may not be indicative of the results that may be achieved for any subsequent quarter or for a full fiscal year. These fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our failure to integrate the operations of acquired businesses successfully into our operations or to manage our anticipated growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. In order to pursue a successful acquisition strategy, we must integrate the operations of acquired businesses into our operations, including centralizing certain functions to achieve cost savings and pursuing programs and processes that leverage our revenue and growth opportunities. The integration of the management, operations, and facilities of acquired businesses with our own could involve difficulties, which could adversely affect our growth rate and operating results. We may be unable to complete effectively the integration of the management, operations, facilities, and accounting and information systems of acquired businesses with our own; to manage efficiently the combined operations of the acquired businesses with our operations; to achieve our operating, growth and performance goals for acquired businesses; to achieve additional revenue as a result of our expanded operations; or to achieve operating efficiencies or otherwise realize cost savings as a result of anticipated acquisition synergies. Our rate of growth and operating performance may suffer if we fail to manage acquired businesses profitably without substantial additional costs or operational problems or to implement effectively combined growth and operating strategies. We may require significant additional funds, the amount of which will depend upon our working capital and general corporate needs and the size, timing and structure of future acquisitions. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to operate or expand our business and adequate financing may not be available if and when we need it or may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Any borrowings made to finance future acquisitions or for operations could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our operating results, a downturn in economic conditions or increases in interest rates on future borrowings. If our cash flow from operations is insufficient to meet our debt service requirements, we could be required to sell additional equity securities, refinance our obligations or dispose of assets in order to meet our debt service requirements. In addition, our operations may not generate sufficient cash for our acquisition plans. The extent to which we would be able or willing to use our equity to consummate future acquisitions will depend on the market price of our equity from time to time and the willingness of potential sellers to accept our equity as full or partial payment. Using our equity for this purpose also may result in significant dilution to our shareholders. To the extent that we are unable to use our equity to make future acquisitions, our ability to grow through acquisitions may be limited by the extent to which we are able to raise capital for this purpose through debt or equity financings. The failure to obtain sufficient financing on favorable terms and conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and growth prospects. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could adversely affect our financial health; future cash flows may not be sufficient to meet our obligations, and we may have difficulty obtaining additional financing; and we may experience adverse effects of interest rate fluctuations. As of December 31, 2011, we had indebtedness of approximately $1.0 million. We have available to us a revolving line of credit of up to $7 million, of which $6.5 million was drawn on March 14, 2012. In addition, we received a loan of $1.7 million from Gaiam under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement entered into in connection with the Alteris merger and have available to us an additional $3.15 million under a commitment made by Riverside under the Shareholders Agreement. 12 Table of Contents There can be no assurance in the future whether we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or through asset sales to meet our long-term debt service obligations. Our present indebtedness and projected future borrowings could have important adverse consequences to us, such as: • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our existing indebtedness; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing without restructuring the covenants in our existing indebtedness to permit the incurrence of such financing; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be used for payments on the debt and related interest, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate requirements; • limiting our ability to respond to changing business, industry and economic conditions and to withstand competitive pressures, which may affect our financial condition; • causing us to incur higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates on our borrowings that have variable interest rates or in the event of refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates; • limiting our ability to make investments, dispose of assets, pay cash dividends or repurchase stock; • increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, our industry or the general economy and restricting us from making improvements or acquisitions or exploring business opportunities; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or greater resources; and • subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that our anticipated revenue growth will be realized, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our available credit in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, if we consummate significant acquisitions in the future, our cash requirements and our debt service requirements may increase significantly. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on attractive terms, commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance our indebtedness will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our indebtedness imposes restrictive covenants on us. Our indebtedness imposes various customary covenants on us and our subsidiaries. The restrictions that are imposed under these debt instruments include, among other obligations, limitations on our and our subsidiaries’ ability to: • sell assets; • change our business, management or ownership; • engage in any merger, acquisition or consolidation transactions; • incur additional debt; • make dividends or distributions and repurchase stock; • make investments; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; and • make payments on subordinated obligations. Our ability to comply with the covenants imposed by the terms of our indebtedness may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions, and other events beyond our control. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with these covenants. Our failure to comply with such covenants, including failure to comply as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. 13 Table of Contents If there were an event of default under our indebtedness, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other debt instruments. We cannot assure you that our assets or cash flow would be sufficient to repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default, or that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on any of those debt instruments. Our operations are largely dependent on the skill and experience of our management and key personnel. The loss of management and other key personnel or our inability to hire additional personnel could significantly harm our business and our ability to expand, and we may not be able to effectively replace members of management who have left the company. Our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position is largely dependent upon, among other things, the efforts and skills of our senior executives and management team. Other than with respect to Erik Zech, our chief financial officer, we have not entered into employment agreements with our senior executives and key personnel. We cannot guarantee that these individuals will remain with us. If we lose the services of any members of our management team or other key personnel, our business may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our existing senior executive and management personnel or attract additional qualified senior executive and management personnel. The loss of or failure to hire additional personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and our ability to expand. Further, the expansion of our business could place a significant strain on our managerial, financial and personnel resources. To reach our goals, we must successfully recruit, train, motivate and retain additional employees, including management and technical personnel, integrate new employees into our overall operations and enhance our financial and accounting systems, controls and reporting systems. While we believe we have personnel sufficient for the current requirements of our business, expansion of our business could require us to employ additional personnel. The loss of personnel or our failure to hire additional personnel could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and our ability to expand. Our success depends on the value of our Real Goods Solar brand. We depend on the name recognition of our Real Goods Solar brand in our marketing efforts. Maintaining and building recognition of our brand are important to expanding our customer base. If the value of our brand were adversely affected, our ability to attract customers would be negatively impacted and our growth could be impaired. Our failure to protect our brands may undermine our competitive position and litigation to protect our brands or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. We believe that it is important for our business to achieve brand recognition. We rely primarily on tradenames to achieve this. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. In addition, policing unauthorized use of our trademarks, trade names, and other intellectual property can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot give assurance that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend our other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. We are subject to litigation which, if adversely determined, could cause us to incur substantial losses. From time to time during the normal course of operating our businesses, we are subject to various litigation claims and legal disputes. Some of the litigation claims may not be covered under our insurance policies, or our insurance carriers may seek to deny coverage. As a result, we might also be required to incur significant legal fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. In addition, because we cannot accurately predict the outcome of any action, it is possible that, as a result of current and/or future litigation, we will be subject to adverse judgments or settlements that could significantly reduce our earnings or result in losses. We depend upon a limited number of suppliers for the components used in our solar energy systems and our inability to purchase components would adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on third-party suppliers for components used in our solar energy systems. During 2011, Kyocera, Sharp, SunTech, Canadian Solar and SunPower accounted for over 80% of our purchases of solar PV modules; and SMA and Enphase accounted for over 90% of our purchases of inverters. The failure of our suppliers to supply us with components in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could result in lost orders, delay our project schedules and harm our operating results and business expansion efforts. Our orders with certain of our suppliers may represent a very small portion of their total business. As a result, these suppliers may not 14 Table of Contents give priority to our business, leading to potential delays in or cancellation of our orders. If any of our suppliers were to fail to supply our needs on a timely basis or to cease providing us key components we use, we would be required to secure alternative sources of supply. We may have difficulty securing alternative sources of supply in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms. If this were to occur, our business would be harmed. Shortages in the supply of silicon or other supply chain issues could adversely affect the availability and cost of the solar PV modules used in our solar energy systems. Shortages of silicon and other supply chain issues could adversely affect the availability and cost of the solar PV modules we use in our solar energy systems. Manufacturers of solar PV modules depend upon the availability and pricing of silicon, one of the primary materials used in the manufacture of solar PV modules. The worldwide market for silicon from time to time experiences a shortage of supply, primarily because of demand for silicon by the semiconductor industry. Shortages of silicon cause the prices for solar PV modules to increase and supplies to become difficult to obtain. While we have been able to obtain sufficient supplies of solar PV modules to satisfy our needs to date, this may not be the case in the future. Future increases in the price of silicon or other materials could result in an increase in costs to us, price increases to our customers or reduced margins. If the U.S. government imposes unfair trade practices duties on certain imports used in our business, our cost of doing business may increase and our result of operations may decrease. Historically, we have purchased solar panels and other products used in our business manufactured both in China and elsewhere. On October 19, 2011, SolarWorld Industries America Inc. filed antidumping duty and countervailing duty petitions with the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission concerning imports of crystalline silicon photovoltaic cells, whether or not assembled into modules (solar cells), from the People’s Republic of China. In the event that antidumping duties or countervailing duties are imposed as a result, those duties will be imposed on all imports of the products subject to the petitions and make such imports more expensive for the importer and downstream purchasers, including us, to the extent that we purchase such imports. Further, the imposition of additional duties on some products used in the U.S. solar panel installation industry may cause the market price of other, competing products used in the industry to increase as well because the downward pressure on product prices in the industry is decreased. It is expected that the Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission will make final determinations in the ongoing investigations by the end of the third quarter 2012. We install solar energy systems, and many factors could prevent us from completing installations as planned, including the escalation of construction costs beyond increments anticipated in our installation budgets. Solar installations have certain inherent risks, including the risks of fire, structural collapse, human error and electrical and mechanical malfunction. In addition, our projects entail additional risks related to structural heights. Our installation projects also entail significant risks, including: • shortages of materials; • shortages of skilled labor; • unforeseen installation scheduling, engineering, excavation, environmental or geological problems; • natural disasters, hurricanes, weather interference, fires, earthquakes or other casualty losses or delays; • unanticipated cost increases or delays in completing the projects; • delays in obtaining or inability to obtain or maintain necessary licenses or permits; • changes to plans or specifications; • performance by subcontractors; • disputes with subcontractors; • increases in the cost of solar panels and other products used in our installations, including as a result of unfair trade duties described elsewhere in these risk factors, higher labor and construction costs and other factors, may cause price increases beyond those anticipated in the budgets for our construction and installation projects. 15 Table of Contents Our installation projects expose us to risks of cost overruns due to typical uncertainties associated with any project or changes in the designs, plans or concepts of such projects. For these and other reasons, installation costs may exceed the estimated cost of completions. Because the solar energy system installation market is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry, we may face the loss of market share or reduced margins. The solar energy system installation market is highly competitive and fragmented with low barriers to entry. We currently compete with a large number of relatively small installers and integrators, some of which do not have extensive industry experience and may lack adequate systems and capital, but some of which benefit from operating efficiencies or from having lower overhead, which enables them to offer lower prices. As the solar energy industry expands and industry consolidation occurs, we are more likely to encounter competition from larger companies, some of which may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources and greater name recognition than we do. We believe that our ability to compete depends in part on a number of factors outside of our control, including the following: • the ownership by competitors of proprietary tools to customize solar energy systems to the needs of particular customers; • the availability of proprietary solar financing solutions; • the price at which competitors offer comparable products; • marketing efforts undertaken by our competitors; • the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to customer needs; and • integrator technologies. Competition in the solar energy system installation market may increase in the future as a result of low barriers to entry. Increased industry competition could result in reductions in price, margins, and market share and in greater competition for qualified personnel. Our business and operating results would be adversely affected if we are unable to compete effectively. Our failure to meet customer expectations in the performance of our services, and the risks and liabilities associated with placing our employees and technicians in our customers’ homes and businesses could give rise to claims against us. Our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in the performance of our services could damage our reputation or result in claims against us. In addition, we are subject to various risks and liabilities associated with our employees and technicians providing installation services in the homes and businesses of our customers, including possible claims of errors and omissions, harassment, theft of customer property, criminal activity and other claims. Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. As a seller of consumer products, we may face product liability claims in the event that use of our solar energy systems results in injuries. Because solar energy systems produce electricity, it is possible that our products could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. If such injuries or claims of injuries were to occur, we could incur monetary damages and our business could be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us also could result in potentially significant monetary damages and, if our insurance protection is inadequate to cover these claims, could require us to make significant payments from our own resources. We may be subject to unexpected warranty expenses or service claims that could reduce our profits. As a result of the length of the warranty periods we provide, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have completed the installation of a solar energy system. Our current standard warranty for our installation services includes a 10-year warranty period for defects in material and workmanship. In addition, most manufacturers of solar PV modules offer a 25-year warranty period for declines in power performance. Although we maintain a warranty reserve for potential warranty or service claims and we have not had material warranty claims in the past, claims in excess of our reserve could adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to predict accurately future warranty claims could result in unexpected volatility in our financial condition. An increase in interest rates or tight credit markets could make it difficult for customers to finance the cost of solar energy systems and could reduce demand for our services and products. Some of our prospective customers may depend on debt financing, such as home equity loans, or leasing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase a solar energy system. Third-party financing sources specifically for solar energy systems are 16 Table of Contents currently limited. The lack of financing sources, limitations on available credit or an increase in interest rates could make it difficult or more costly for our potential customers to secure the financing necessary to purchase a solar energy system on favorable terms, or at all, thus lowering demand for our services and products and negatively impacting our business. We must meet the NASDAQ Global Market continued listing requirements or we risk delisting, which may decrease our stock price and make it harder for our shareholders to trade our stock. Our Class A common stock is currently listed for trading on the NASDAQ Global Market. We must continue to satisfy NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements or risk delisting of our securities. Delisting would have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock and likely also on our business. There can be no assurance that we will meet the continued listing requirements for the NASDAQ Global Market, or that our Class A common stock will not be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market in the future. If our Class A common stock is delisted from NASDAQ, it may trade on the over-the-counter market, which may be a less liquid market. In such case, our shareholders’ ability to trade, or obtain quotations of the market value of, shares of our Class A common stock would be severely limited because of lower trading volumes and transaction delays. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our securities. In the event the make-up of our board of directors or audit committee were not, or are not in the future, in compliance with the SEC and NASDAQ independence requirements, we face a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our shareholders and our business. The SEC rules and the NASDAQ Global Stock Market’s continued listing requirements require, among other things, that a majority of the members of our board of directors are independent and that our audit committee consists entirely of independent directors. We currently comply with the SEC and NASDAQ requirements regarding director independence. However, in the event that we do not remain in compliance with these requirements, our executive officers could establish policies and enter into transactions without the requisite independent review and approval. This could present the potential for a conflict of interest between us and our shareholders generally and our executive officers, shareholders, or directors. Further, our failure to comply with these requirements may limit the quality of the decisions that are made by our board of directors and audit committee, increasing the risk of material misstatements or omissions caused by errors or fraud with respect to our financial statements or other disclosures that may occur and not be detected in a timely manner or at all, or the payment of inappropriate levels of compensation to our executive officers. In the event that there are deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may misreport our financial results or lose significant amounts due to misstatements caused by errors or fraud. Finally, if the composition of our board of directors or audit committee fails to meet NASDAQ’s independence requirements in the future and we fail to regain compliance with NASDAQ’s continued listing requirements, our Class A common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market, as further described in the previous risk factor. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for investors. The market price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • actual or anticipated changes in our operating results; • regulatory, legislative or other developments affecting us or the solar energy industry generally; • changes in expectations relating to our services and products, plans and strategic position or those of our competitors or customers; • market conditions and trends within the solar energy industry; • acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • litigation involving us, our industry or both; • introductions of new technological innovations, services, products or pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • our ability to execute our business plan; • volume and timing of customer orders; 17 Table of Contents • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • changes in investor perception; • the level and quality of any research analyst coverage of our Class A common stock; • changes in earnings estimates or investment recommendations by analysts; • the financial guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; • trading volume of our Class A common stock or the sale of such stock by Gaiam, our management team or directors; and • economic and other external factors that impact purchasing decisions of our potential customers. In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies and industries. These fluctuations may include a so-called “bubble market” in which investors temporarily raise the price of the stocks of companies in certain industries, such as the renewable energy industry, to unsustainable levels. These market fluctuations may significantly affect the market price of our Class A common stock. We do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our Class A common stock for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, shareholders would have to sell some or all of their stock in order to generate cash flow from their investment. Any determination to pay dividends in the future on our Class A common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial conditions, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law, capital requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. Securities analysts may not continue to cover our Class A common stock, and this may have a negative impact on our Class A common stock’s market price. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is downgraded, our stock price would likely decline. If the analyst ceases to cover us or fails to publish regular reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Ownership could be diluted by future issuances of our stock, options, warrants or other securities. Ownership of our securities may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock or the exercise of outstanding or to be issued options, warrants or convertible notes to purchase capital stock. In particular, we may sell securities in the future in order to finance operations, expansions, or particular projects or expenditures. There is a limited public trading market for our Class A common stock. Our Class A common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the trading symbol “RSOL.” There is a limited public trading market for our Class A common stock. Without an active trading market, there can be no assurance of any liquidity or resale value of our Class A common stock, and shareholders may be required to hold shares of our Class A common stock for an indefinite period of time. Our business is subject to reporting requirements that continue to evolve and change, which could continue to require significant compliance effort and resources. Because our Class A common stock is publicly traded, we are subject to certain rules and regulations of federal, state and financial market exchange entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the NASDAQ, periodically issue new requirements and regulations and legislative bodies also review and revise applicable laws such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. As interpretation and implementation of these laws and rules and promulgation of new regulations continues, we will continue to be required to commit significant financial and managerial resources and incur additional expenses. 18 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to our Relationship with Gaiam and Riverside Renewable Energy Investment LLC (“Riverside”) Gaiam and Riverside have significant influence over Real Goods Solar and their interests may conflict with or differ from interests of other shareholders. Gaiam and Riverside hold approximately 37.5% and 29.3%, respectively, of the currently outstanding shares of our Class A common stock. Further, pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders Agreement entered into in connection with the closing of the Alteris merger, Gaiam and Riverside currently each has the right to designate two individuals for appointment or nomination to our board of directors and they have agreed to vote their securities in favor of the election to our board of directors of these designated individuals. Because of their voting rights and their ability to designate individuals for appointment or nomination to our board of directors, each of them will be able to exert significant influence over our company and matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors, increasing our authorized capital stock, financing activities, a merger or sale of our assets and the number of shares available for issuance under our Incentive Plan. Our Chairman, Jirka Rysavy, who is also the Chairman of Gaiam, currently owns approximately 27% of the outstanding equity, and in excess of 50% of the voting power, of Gaiam and is one of two individuals designated by Gaiam to serve on our board of directors. Gaiam and Riverside are not prohibited from selling a significant interest in our company to a third party and may do so without shareholder approval and without providing for a purchase of other shares of Class A common stock. Accordingly, shares of Class A common stock may be worth less than they would be if Gaiam and Riverside did not maintain voting significance over us. Our historical financial information as a business conducted by Gaiam may not be representative of our results as an independent public company. Our historical financial information for periods prior to our initial public offering do not reflect what our financial position, operating results or cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the historical periods presented. The historical costs and expenses reflected in our consolidated financial statements include amounts for certain corporate functions historically provided by Gaiam, including costs of fulfillment, systems, finance and other administrative services, and income taxes. These expense allocations were developed on the basis of what we and Gaiam considered to be reasonable prices for the utilization of services provided or the benefits received by us. The historical financial information in our audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements may not be indicative of what our results of operations, financial position, changes in equity and cash flows would have been had we been a separate stand-alone entity during the periods presented or will be in the future. We have not made adjustments to reflect many significant changes that occurred in our cost structure, funding and operations as a result of our separation from Gaiam, including changes in our employee base, changes in our tax structure, potential increased costs associated with reduced economies of scale and increased costs associated with being a publicly traded, stand-alone company, such as audit fees, directors and officers insurance costs and compliance costs. Our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we or Gaiam terminate our Intercorporate Services Agreement, or if we are unable to establish on a cost-effective basis our own administrative and other support functions in order to operate as a stand-alone company after the expiration or termination of our Intercorporate Services Agreement with Gaiam. In connection with our initial public offering, we entered into an Intercorporate Services Agreement to retain the ability for specified periods to use certain Gaiam resources. This agreement automatically renews on a quarterly basis. Any decision by us to terminate this agreement would be approved by disinterested members of our management and board of directors under our procedures regarding related party transactions. In connection with the expiration or termination of this agreement, we will need to create our own administrative and other support systems or contracts with third parties to replace Gaiam’s services. These services may not be provided at the same level as when we were a wholly owned subsidiary of Gaiam, and we may not be able to obtain the same benefits that we received prior to the separation. These services may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and after our agreement with Gaiam expires or is terminated, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at prices and on terms as favorable as we currently have with Gaiam. Any failure or significant downtime in our own administrative systems or in Gaiam’s administrative systems during the transitional period could result in unexpected costs, impact our results or prevent us from paying our suppliers or employees and performing other administrative services on a timely basis. Our inability to resolve any disputes that arise between us and Gaiam with respect to our past and ongoing relationships may result in a reduction of our revenue, and such disputes may also result in claims for indemnification. Disputes may arise between Gaiam and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships, including the following: • labor, tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from our separation from Gaiam; • employee retention and recruiting; • business combinations involving us; • pricing for shared and transitional services; 19 Table of Contents • sales or distributions by Gaiam of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us; • the nature, quality and pricing of services Gaiam has agreed to provide us; and • business opportunities that may be attractive to both Gaiam and us. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. In addition, we have indemnification obligations under the Tax Sharing Agreement, Intercorporate Services Agreement, Facility Lease Agreement and Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement with Gaiam, and disputes between us and Gaiam may result in claims for indemnification. However, we do not currently expect that these indemnification obligations will materially affect our potential liability compared to what it would be if we did not enter into these agreements with Gaiam. Some of our directors and executive officers may have conflicts of interest because of their ownership of Gaiam common stock, options to acquire Gaiam common stock and positions with Gaiam. Some of our directors and executive officers own Gaiam common stock and options to purchase Gaiam common stock. In addition, some of our directors are also directors and/or executive officers of Gaiam. Ownership of Gaiam common stock and options to purchase Gaiam common stock by our directors and officers and the presence of directors and executive officers of Gaiam on our board of directors could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both us and Gaiam. For example, corporate opportunities may arise that are applicable or complementary to both of our businesses and that each business would be free to pursue, such as the potential acquisition of a particular business or technology focused on environmental sustainability including renewable energy sources, energy efficiency or energy use reduction. However, we understand that Gaiam does not intend to acquire businesses that are focused on solar energy. We have not established at this time any procedural mechanisms to address actual or perceived conflicts of interest of these directors and officers and expect that our board of directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, will determine how to address any actual or perceived conflicts of interest on a case-by-case basis. If any corporate opportunity arises and if our directors and officers do not pursue it on our behalf, we may not become aware of, and may potentially lose, a significant business opportunity. Possible future sales of shares by Gaiam or Riverside could adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock, even if our business is doing well. Gaiam or Riverside may sell any or all of the shares of common stock owned by it from time to time for any reason. Under the Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement among Gaiam, Riverside and us, entered into in connection with the closing of the Alteris merger, Gaiam and Riverside have the right to require us to register the shares of Class A common stock that they own to facilitate the possible sale of such shares. However, Gaiam and Riverside have agreed not to exercise their registration rights for the time being pursuant to the terms of the Shareholders Agreement they entered into with us in connection with the closing of the Alteris merger. Although we cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of Class A common stock by Gaiam or Riverside would have on the market price prevailing from time to time, sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock or the availability of such shares for sale could adversely affect prevailing market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None 