Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition, business, operations, and prospects of the Company involve a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which constitute the material risks relating to the Company, and the other information in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks are realized, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the value of the Company’s stock could suffer. This means that investors and shareholders of the Company could lose all or a part of their investment. RISKS RELATING TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA The operations of Guanwei, our sole operating subsidiary, are wholly conducted in China. Accordingly, its businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the political, economic and legal environments in the PRC and by the general state of the PRC economy. Certain Political and Economic Considerations Relating to China Could Adversely Affect Our Company. The PRC is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. The Chinese Government Exerts Substantial Influence Over The Manner In Which We Must Conduct Our Business Activities Which Could Adversely Affect Our Company. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and State ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in China. 8 The Chinese Legal System Has Inherent Uncertainties That Could Limit The Legal Protections Available To You. Guanwei’s contractual arrangements in China are governed by the laws of the PRC. China’s legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, and therefore you may not have legal protections for certain matters in China. Because Our Assets Are Located In China, Any Dividends Of Proceeds From Liquidation Is Subject To The Approval Of The Relevant Chinese Government Agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payments will be subject to the decision of our Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well as the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors in case of dividend payments and liquidation. Future Inflation In China May Inhibit Our Activity To Conduct Business In China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past twenty years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 24.1% in 1994 and as low as -1.4% in 1999 (according to National Bureau of Statistics of China). These factors have led to the adoption by Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China and thereby harm our business operations. Capital Outflow Policies In China May Hamper Our Ability To Pay Dividends To Shareholders In The United States. The PRC has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations require that we comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may be unable to obtain all of the required conversion approvals for our operations, and Chinese regulatory authorities may impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB in the future. Because all of our current revenues and most of our future revenues will be in RMB, any inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges will limit our ability to fund our business activities outside China or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Currency Conversion And Exchange Rate Volatility Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China (PBOC) publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises (“FIEs”), for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. 9 Since 1994, the exchange rate for RMB against the United States dollars has remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB 8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that would begin pegging the exchange rate of the Chinese RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. Dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. The Value Of Our Securities Will Be Affected By The Foreign Exchange Rate Between U.S. Dollars And Renminbi. The value of our Common Stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs and should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the Company, and the price of our Common Stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our Common Stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our China operations would be reduced. You May Experience Difficulties In Effecting Service Of Legal Process, Enforcing Foreign Judgments Or Bringing Original Actions In China Based On United States Or Other Foreign Laws Against Us. We conduct our operations in China and most of our assets are located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon such directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the U.S. and many other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the U.S. or any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Our Significant Amount Of Deposits In Certain Banks and Financial Institutions In China May Be At Risk If These Banks Go Bankrupt During Our Deposit Period. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately US$7.3 million on deposit with banks and financial institutions in China, which constitutes approximately all of our total cash. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to twelve (12) months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks and financial institutions are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which became effective on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks and financial institutions based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank or financial institution may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s concession to WTO, foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been severe competitors against Chinese banks and financial institutions in many aspects, especially since the opening of RMB business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy of those banks and financial institutions in which we have deposits has increased. In the event of bankruptcy of one of the banks or financial institutions which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to recover our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. We Are Subject To The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it deals with contracts from the Chinese Government, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of the Share Exchange. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We Cannot Predict Whether We Will Meet Internal or External Expectations Of Future Performance. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenue from processing recycled plastic wastes. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with a limited operating history. These risks include our ability to: • develop new and innovative processing methods, including processes which increase production yield; • respond effectively to competitive pressures and address the effects of strategic relationships or corporate combinations; • maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships with customers and suppliers; • increase awareness of our products and continue to build customer loyalty; and • attract and retain qualified management, consultants and employees. We Cannot Assure You That Our Organic Growth Strategy Will Be Successful. One of our growth strategies is to grow organically through increasing the sale of our products by increasing our output volume and entering new markets in China and internationally. However, many obstacles to increasing our market share and entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, costs associated with increasing market share and entering into such markets and attendant marketing efforts. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this organic growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our ability to grow and on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our Business And Growth Could Suffer If We Are Unable To Hire And Retain Key Personnel That Are In High Demand. We depend upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, including external experts and advisers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of these individuals at present. As we plan to expand, we will have to attract managerial staff. We may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to our lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede any potential expansion. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified technical, engineering, managerial, finance, marketing, security and customer service personnel in China. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain the personnel we need to succeed. We May Not Be Able To Manage Our Expanding Operations Effectively, Which Could Harm Our Business. We anticipate expanding our business as we address growth in our customer base and market opportunities. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations as a result of overall internal growth requires significant management resources that our locally-based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. In order to manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve and implement operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Further, our management will be required to maintain and expand our strategic relationships necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we are not successful in establishing, maintaining and managing our personnel, systems, procedures and controls, our business will be materially and adversely affected. If We Need Additional Capital To Fund Our Growing Operations, We May Not Be Able To Obtain Sufficient Capital And May Be Forced To Limit The Scope Of Our Operations. We may experience increased capital needs and we may not have enough capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the success of our competitors; (iii) the amount of our capital expenditures; and (iv) new investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: • reduce our investments; • limit our expansion efforts; and 11 • decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. We Depend On A Limited Number Of Suppliers For A Majority Of Our Supplies. The Inability To Secure Raw Materials Could Affect Our Production Output And Reduce Our Revenues. We primarily import plastics wastes from ten suppliers located in Europe and Hong Kong. Failure to maintain good relationships with our current suppliers or to develop a new supply source of raw materials could negatively affect our ability to obtain the raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supplies of raw material from our existing suppliers or develop alternative supply sources, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. Furthermore, we are dependent on our suppliers for the timely delivery of materials that we require for our operations. Should our suppliers fail to deliver such materials on time, and if we are unable to source these materials from alternative suppliers on a timely basis, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. The Success Of Our Business Is Heavily Dependent Upon Our Ability To Secure Raw Plastic. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon our ability to secure raw plastic. There is a world-wide market for these materials, and the Company faces competition from other low-cost users. To the extent that we are unable to secure enough raw plastic, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. The Chinese Government Limits The Amount Of Plastic Waste Which May Be Imported, And As Such, We May Not Be Able To Import Sufficient Raw Materials. The Chinese government limits the amount of plastic waste which may be imported into China. Although we have not experienced difficulties obtaining and renewing our import license in the past, we cannot guarantee the license will be approved in the future. If we fail to obtain the import license, we may have to use domestically supplied plastics wastes for our manufacturing. Domestic plastic wastes are typically poorly sorted, so utilizing the domestic raw material increase production costs. Our Production Costs And Revenues Are Impacted By Increases In The Cost Of Labor, Shipping And Other Expenses. The manufacturing of recycled plastics is highly labor-intensive as all raw material classification is done by hand. A sharp increase of in pay or a mandatory welfare/insurance contribution by employers would cause an increase in production costs and would reduce our profit margin. Additionally, as all of the raw material used in our manufacturing is imported, an increase in the freight costs of importing such material would increase our production costs and thus negatively impact our revenues. We Are Dependent On Use Of An Import Quota Granted To Us By Another Company, The Loss Of Which Could Materially Affect Our Ability To Secure High Quality Raw Materials For Our Manufacturing Processes. In the PRC, imports of plastic waste are subject to an import quota regulated by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We have been approved for an import quota of 24,000 tons of plastic waste per year. We have also been permitted to use of the 35,000 tons per year import quota granted to Huan Li. Huan Li has not had any significant operations since 2005, but its import quota remains valid. Chen Min, our Chief Executive Officer, is the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and legal representative with the power to represent and act on behalf, of Huan Li. Although we have not previously experienced difficulties with regard to Huan Li permitting us to use its import quota, there can be no guarantee that the import quota will be available to us in the future. Huan Li can rescind its grant to us of the import quota at any time. If we are unable to use Huan Li’s import quota, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Without the import quota we may have to purchase domestically supplied plastic waste for our manufacturing processes. Domestic plastic waste is typically poorly sorted, which increases our production costs and most of the plastic waste available domestically has already been recycled, and it therefore has a lower tensile force which would negatively impact the quality of our products. 12 We May Be Classified As A Passive Foreign Investment Company, Which Could Result In Adverse U.S. Tax Consequences To U.S. Investors. Based upon the nature of our income and assets, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to more burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis, and those determinations depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. We intend to operate our business so as to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment, however you should be aware that certain factors that could affect our classification as PFIC are out of our control. For example, the calculation of assets for purposes of the PFIC rules depends in large part upon the amount of our goodwill, which in turn is based, in part, on the then market value of our shares, which is subject to change. Similarly, the composition of our income and assets is affected by the extent to which we spend the cash we have raised on acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the relevant authorities in this area are not clear and so we operate with less than clear guidance in our effort to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment. Therefore, we cannot be sure whether we are not and will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. In the event we are determined to be a PFIC, our stock may become less attractive to U.S. investors, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. Environmental Compliance And Remediation Could Result In Substantially Increased Capital Requirements And Operating Costs Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business Guanwei is subject to numerous Chinese provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our consolidated business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if Guanwei were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting its operations. We could, in the future, incur a material liability resulting from the costs of complying with environmental laws, environmental permits or any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability from contamination. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist at our facilities or at third-party sites for which we are liable. Enactment of stricter laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently unknown environmental contamination at our own or third-party sites may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. If Environmental Regulation Enforcement Is Relaxed, The Demand For Our Products May Decrease. The demand for our services is substantially dependent upon the public’s concern with, and the continuation and proliferation of, the laws and regulations governing the recycling of plastic. A decrease in the level of public concern, the repeal or modification of these laws, or any significant relaxation of regulations relating to the recycling of plastic would significantly reduce the demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We Face Competition From Other Companies, Which Could Force Us To Lower Our Prices, Thereby Adversely Affecting Our Operating Margins, Financial Condition, Cash Flows And Profitability. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We believe that one significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. Although we do not aspire to be the lowest cost provider but rather the highest value provider to our customers, we could be subject to adverse results caused by our competitors’ pricing decisions. If we do not compete successfully, our business, operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. Our Sales Are Dominated By Sales in China Which Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Business For each of the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 almost all of our sales were derived from customers in China. We expect that the domestic market in China will continue to be our major market. Our business is therefore heavily dependent on the demand for plastics in China and the domestic market prices of LDPE. In the event that there is any material adverse change in the level of the demand of raw material for plastic products in China or if there are a significant price fluctuations in China, our performance could be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our Common Stock Price May Be Volatile And Could Decline In The Future. The stock market in general and the market price for other companies based in the PRC have experienced extreme stock price fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Many companies in China have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our Common Stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors such as the following could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock: 13 • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • our ability to obtain additional financing and, if available, the terms and conditions of the financing; • our financial position and results of operations; • litigation; • period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in estimates of our performance by any securities analysts; • new regulatory requirements and changes in the existing regulatory environment; • the issuance of new equity securities in a future offering; • changes in interest rates; • changes in environmental standards; • market conditions of securities traded on the OTCBB; • investor perceptions of us and the plastics recycling industry generally; and • general economic and other national conditions. The Trading Market In Our Common Stock Is Limited And May Cause Volatility In The Market Price. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the OTCBB under the symbol “GURC.OB”, formerly “MDHO.OB”. The OTCBB is an inter-dealer, over-the-counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASDAQ’s automated quotation system, or the NASDAQ Stock Market. Quotes for stocks included on the OTCBB are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for the NASDAQ Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTCBB may be difficult to obtain. The quotation of our Common Stock on the OTCBB does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Thus, the market price for our Common Stock is subject to volatility and holders of Common Stock may be unable to resell their shares at or near their original purchase price or at any price. In the absence of an active trading market: • investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; • market visibility for our Common Stock may be limited; and • a lack of visibility for our Common Stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our Common Stock. We May Have Difficulty Raising Necessary Capital To Fund Operations As A Result Of Market Price Volatility For Our Shares Of Common Stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of Common Stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. 14 Our Common Stock Is Considered A “Penny Stock” And As A Result, Related Broker-Dealer Requirements Affect Its Trading And Liquidity. Our Common Stock is considered to be a “penny stock” since it meets one or more of the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act. These include but are not limited to the following: (i) the common stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) the common stock is not traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) the common stock is not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market, or (iv) the common stock is issued by a company with average revenues of less than US$6,000,000 for the past three (3) years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend our Common Stock to investors, thus hampering its liquidity. Section 15(g) and Rule 15g-2 require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with documentation disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the documents before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our Common Stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any of our shares. Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our Common Stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Shares Eligible For Future Sale May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. From time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of Common Stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), subject to certain limitations. Future sales of our Common Stock by existing shareholders pursuant to Rule 144, or following the exercise of future option grants, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The issuance of additional shares upon exercise of options will dilute the voting power of our current shareholders on corporate matters and, as a result, may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decrease. Further, sales of a large number of shares of Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock and could materially impair our future ability to generate funds through sales of Common Stock or other equity securities. One Shareholder Exercises Significant Control Over Matters Requiring Shareholder Approval. A single shareholder, Fresh Generation, has voting power equal to approximately 60% of our voting securities as of the date of this Annual Report. As described in greater detail later in this Annual Report, Chen Min, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, is the beneficial owner of the shares of our Common Stock held by that Fresh Generation. Furthermore, Chen Min holds a portion of such shares in trust for the benefit of certain other of our directors. As a result, Chen Min and such directors, through such indirect stock ownership, can exercise control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by other shareholders. We May Incur Significant Costs To Ensure Compliance With U.S. Corporate Governance And Accounting Requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We May Be Required To Raise Additional Financing By Issuing New Securities With Terms Or Rights Superior To Those Of Our Shares Of Common Stock, Which Could Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Shares Of Common Stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of Common Stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our Common Stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of Common Stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. 15 We May Have Difficulty Establishing Adequate Management And Financial Controls In China And In Complying With U.S. Corporate Governance And Accounting Requirements Which Could Have An Adverse Affect On Our Business The PRC has only recently begun to adopt the management and financial reporting concepts and practices that investors in the United States are familiar with. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management and financial controls that are expected of a United States public company. If we cannot establish such controls, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. standards, which could have an adverse affect on our business. Standards For Compliance With Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002 Are Uncertain, And If We Fail To Comply In A Timely Manner, Our Business Could Be Harmed And Our Stock Price Could Decline. Rules adopted by the SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, and attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards and will impose significant additional expenses on us. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the attestation process by our independent registered public accountants is new and we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements and receiving an attestation of our assessment by our independent registered public accountants. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, or our independent registered public accountants are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on such assessment, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. We Do Not Foresee Paying Cash Dividends In The Foreseeable Future. Although Chenxin has previously paid cash dividends to its shareholders, the Registrant has not paid cash dividends and there are no plans to pay cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. 