Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition, business, operations, and prospects of the Company involve a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, which constitute the material risks relating to the Company, and the other information in this Annual Report. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the value of the Company’s stock could suffer. This means that investors and shareholders of the Company could lose all or a part of their investment. RISKS RELATING TO THE PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA The operations of Guanwei, our sole operating subsidiary, are wholly conducted in China. Accordingly, its businesses, financial condition and results of operations may be influenced by the political, economic and legal environments in the PRC and by the general state of the PRC economy. Certain Political and Economic Considerations Relating to China Could Adversely Affect Our Company. The PRC is transitioning from a planned economy to a market economy. While the PRC government has pursued economic reforms since its adoption of the open-door policy in 1978, a large portion of the PRC economy is still operating under five-year plans and annual state plans. Through these plans and other economic measures, such as control on foreign exchange, taxation and restrictions on foreign participation in the domestic market of various industries, the PRC government exerts considerable direct and indirect influence on the economy. Many of the economic reforms carried out by the PRC government are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. 11 Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of such reforms. This refining and readjustment process may not necessarily have a positive effect on our operations or future business development. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in the PRC’s economic and social conditions as well as by changes in the policies of the PRC government, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the official interpretation thereof), measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the interest rate or method of taxation, and the imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents and the acquisitions of PRC companies by foreign entities may create regulatory uncertainties and subject our PRC resident beneficial owners to personal liability, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our ability to increase registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies namely, the PRC Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (“SASAC”), the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “New M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006, as amended on June 22, 2009. The New M&A Rules significantly revised China’s regulatory framework governing onshore-to-offshore restructurings and foreign acquisitions of domestic enterprises. The New M&A Rules signify greater PRC government attention to cross-border merger, acquisition and other investment activities, by confirming MOFCOM as a key regulator for issues related to mergers and acquisitions in China and requiring MOFCOM approval of a broad range of merger, acquisition and investment transactions. Further, the New M&A Rules establish reporting requirements for acquisition of control by foreigners of companies in key industries, and reinforce the ability of the Chinese government to monitor and prohibit foreign control transactions in key industries. Among other things, the New M&A Rules provide that where a domestic company, enterprise or natural person intends to take over its domestic affiliated company in the name of an offshore company which it lawfully established or controls, it shall be subject to the examination and approval of the MOFCOM. Additionally, the New M&A Rules include new provisions that purport to require that an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, formed for listing purposes and controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or individuals must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such SPV’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. However, the application of this PRC regulation remains unclear regarding the scope and applicability of the CSRC approval requirement. We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our beneficial owners who are subject to the New M&A Rules will comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our current or future beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with these rules. Any failure by any of our current or future beneficial owners to comply with relevant requirements under this regulation could subject us to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government. If the MOFCOM, CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that the approval of this regulatory agency is required for any of our relevant transactions or acquisitions, we may face sanctions by such regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from this offering into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares. In October 2005, SAFE issued a public notice that took effect on November 1, 2005, known as Circular No. 75, concerning the use of offshore holding companies in mergers and acquisitions in China. The public notice Circular No.75 provides that if a PRC resident intends to establish or control an SPV, or an offshore company controlled by PRC residents intends to acquire a PRC company, such acquisition will be subject to registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities. 12 Circular No. 75 also suggests that registration with the relevant foreign exchange authorities is required for any sale or transfer by PRC residents of shares in an offshore holding company that owns an onshore company. PRC residents must each submit a registration form to the local SAFE branch with respect to their ownership interests in the offshore company, and must also file an amendment to such registration if the offshore company experiences material events, such as changes in the share capital, share transfer, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions or use of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. We are committed to complying with and to ensuring that our beneficial owners who are subject to Circular No. 75 will comply with the relevant rules. However, we cannot assure you that all of our current or future beneficial owners who are PRC residents will comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with these rules. Any failure by those PRC beneficial owners to file any such registration form or amendments could subject us to sanctions imposed by the PRC government or/and limit the ability of a PRC company to remit its profit, dividends and other proceeds to offshore entities. The Chinese Government Exerts Substantial Influence Over The Manner In Which We Must Conduct Our Business Activities Which Could Adversely Affect Our Company. China only recently has permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and State ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of these jurisdictions may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. The Chinese Legal System Has Inherent Uncertainties That Could Limit The Legal Protections Available To You. Guanwei’s contractual arrangements in China are governed by the laws of the PRC. China’s legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the Chinese legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties, and therefore you may not have legal protections for certain matters in China. Because Our Assets Are Located In China, Any Dividends Of Proceeds From Liquidation Is Subject To The Approval Of The Relevant Chinese Government Agencies. Our assets are located inside China. Under the laws governing foreign invested enterprises in China, dividend distribution and liquidation are allowed but subject to special procedures under the relevant laws and rules. Any dividend payments will be subject to the decision of our Board of Directors and subject to foreign exchange rules governing such repatriation. Any liquidation is subject to both the relevant government agency’s approval and supervision as well as the foreign exchange control. This may generate additional risk for our investors as they may hinder dividend payments and liquidation. Future Inflation In China May Inhibit Our Activity To Conduct Business In China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. During the past twenty years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 24.1% in 1994 and as low as -1.4% in 1999 (according to National Bureau of Statistics of China). These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. While inflation has been more moderate since 1995, high inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China and thereby harm our business operations. 13 Capital Outflow Policies In China May Hamper Our Ability To Pay Dividends To Shareholders In The United States. The PRC has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations require that we comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although Chinese governmental policies were introduced in 1996 to allow the convertibility of RMB into foreign currency for current account items, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange for capital items, such as foreign direct investment, loans or securities, requires the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. We may be unable to obtain all of the required conversion approvals for our operations, and Chinese regulatory authorities may impose greater restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB in the future. Because all of our current revenues and most of our future revenues will likely be in RMB, any inability to obtain the requisite approvals or any future restrictions on currency exchanges will limit our ability to fund our business activities outside China or to pay dividends to our shareholders. Currency Conversion And Exchange Rate Volatility Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition. The PRC government imposes control over the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies. Under the current unified floating exchange rate system, the People’s Bank of China (“PBOC”) publishes an exchange rate, which we refer to as the PBOC exchange rate, based on the previous day’s dealings in the inter-bank foreign exchange market. Financial institutions authorized to deal in foreign currency may enter into foreign exchange transactions at exchange rates within an authorized range above or below the PBOC exchange rate according to market conditions. Pursuant to the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations of the PRC issued by the State Council which came into effect on April 1, 1996, and the Regulations on the Administration of Foreign Exchange Settlement, Sale and Payment of the PRC which came into effect on July 1, 1996, regarding foreign exchange control, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange by Foreign Investment Enterprises (“FIEs”), for use on current account items, including the distribution of dividends and profits to foreign investors, is permissible. FIEs are permitted to convert their after-tax dividends and profits to foreign exchange and remit such foreign exchange to their foreign exchange bank accounts in the PRC. Conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, is still under certain restrictions. On January 14, 1997, the State Council amended the Foreign Exchange Control Regulations and added, among other things, an important provision, which provides that the PRC government shall not impose restrictions on recurring international payments and transfers under current account items. Enterprises in the PRC (including FIEs) which require foreign exchange for transactions relating to current account items, may, without approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, effect payment from their foreign exchange account or convert and pay at the designated foreign exchange banks by providing valid receipts and proofs. Convertibility of foreign exchange in respect of capital account items, such as direct investment and capital contribution, is still subject to certain restrictions, and prior approval from the SAFE or its relevant branches must be sought. Since 1994, the exchange rate for RMB against the United States dollars has remained relatively stable, most of the time in the region of approximately RMB 8.28 to US$1.00. However, in 2005, the Chinese government announced that would begin pegging the exchange rate of the Chinese RMB against a number of currencies, rather than just the U.S. Dollar. As our operations are primarily in China, any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into RMB for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert RMB into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the RMB we convert would be reduced. 14 You May Experience Difficulties In Effecting Service Of Legal Process, Enforcing Foreign Judgments Or Bringing Original Actions In China Based On United States Or Other Foreign Laws Against Us. We conduct our operations in China and most of our assets are located in China. In addition, some of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon such directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the U.S. and many other countries that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court of the U.S. or any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter may be difficult or impossible. Our Significant Amount Of Deposits In Certain Banks and Financial Institutions In China May Be At Risk If These Banks Go Bankrupt During Our Deposit Period. At December 31, 2013, we had approximately US$11.9 million on deposit with banks and financial institutions in China, which constitutes approximately all of our total cash. The terms of these deposits are, in general, up to three (3) months. Historically, deposits in Chinese banks and financial institutions are secure due to the state policy on protecting depositors’ interests. However, China promulgated a new Bankruptcy Law in August 2006, which became effective on June 1, 2007, which contains a separate article expressly stating that the State Council may promulgate implementation measures for the bankruptcy of Chinese banks and financial institutions based on the Bankruptcy Law. Under the new Bankruptcy Law, a Chinese bank or financial institution may go bankrupt. In addition, since China’s concession to WTO, foreign banks have been gradually permitted to operate in China and have been severe competitors with Chinese banks and financial institutions in many aspects, especially since the opening of RMB business to foreign banks in late 2006. Therefore, the risk of bankruptcy of those banks and financial institutions in which we have deposits has increased. In the event of bankruptcy of one of the banks or financial institutions which holds our deposits, we are unlikely to recover our deposits back in full since we are unlikely to be classified as a secured creditor based on PRC laws. Because Our Funds Are Held In Banks Which Do Not Provide Insurance, The Failure Of Any Bank In Which We Deposit Our Funds Could Affect Our Ability To Continue In Business. Banks and other financial institutions in the People’s Republic of China do not provide insurance for funds held on deposit. As a result, in the event of a bank failure, we may not have access to funds on deposit. Depending upon the amount of money we maintain in a bank that fails, our inability to have access to our cash could impair our operations, and, if we are not able to access funds to pay our suppliers, employees and other creditors, we may be unable to continue in business. We Are Subject To The United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it deals with contracts from the Chinese Government, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of the Share Exchange. If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 The PRC Labor Law Restrict Our Ability To Reduce Our Workforce In The PRC In The Event Of An Economic Downturn And May Increase Our Labor Costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. To clarify certain details in connection with the implementation of the Labor Contract Law, the State Council promulgated the Implementing Rules for the Labor Contract Law, or the Implementing Rules, on September 18, 2008 that came into effect immediately. The Labor Contract Law provides various rules regarding employment contracts that will likely have a substantial impact on employment practices in China. The Labor Contract Law imposes severe penalties on employers that fail to timely enter into employment contracts with employees. The employer is required to pay a double salary to the employee if it does not enter into a written contract with the employee within one month of the employment, and a non-fixed-term contract is assumed if a written contract is not executed after one year of the employment. Additionally, the Labor Contract Law sets a limit of two fixed-term contracts regardless of the length of each term, after which the contract must be renewed on a non-fixed-term basis should the parties agree to a further renewal unless otherwise required by the respective employee. This requirement curtails the common practice of continuously renewing short-term employment contracts. The Implementing Rules appear to further tighten this rule by suggesting that an employee has the right to demand a non-fixed-term contract upon the completion of the second fixed term regardless of whether the employer agrees to a contract renewal. A non-fixed-term contract does not have a termination date and it is generally difficult to terminate such a contract because termination must be based on limited statutory grounds. The employer can no longer supplement such statutory grounds through an agreement with the employee. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of statutory severance upon the termination of an employment contract in most circumstances, including the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. Under the Labor Contract Law, employers can only impose a post-termination non-competition provision on employees who have access to their confidential information for a maximum period of two years. If an employer intends to maintain the enforceability of a post-termination non-competition provision, it has to pay the employee compensation on a monthly basis post-termination of the employment. Under the Labor Contract Law, a “mass layoff” is defined as termination of more than 20 employees or more than 10% of the workforce. The Labor Contract Law expands the circumstances under which a mass layoff can be conducted, such as when the company undertakes a restructuring pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, suffers serious difficulties in business operations, changes its line of business, performs significant technological improvements, changes operating methods, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract impractical. The employer must follow specific procedures in conducting a mass layoff. There is little guidance on what penalties an employer will suffer if it fails to follow the procedural requirements in conducting the mass layoff. Finally, the Labor Contract Law requires that the employer discuss the company’s internal rules and regulations that directly affect the employees’ material interests (such as employees’ salary, work hours, leave, benefits, and training, etc.) with all employees or employee representative assemblies and consult with the trade union or employee representatives on such matters before making a final decision. All of our employees based exclusively within the PRC are covered by the Labor Contract Law. As there are uncertainties as to how the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules will be enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, we cannot assess their potential impact on our business and results of operations at the moment. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses and labor service expenses. If we want to maintain the enforceability of any of our employees’ post-termination non-competition provisions, the compensation and procedures required under the Labor Contract Law may add substantial costs and cause financial burdens to us. Prior to the new law such compensation was often structured as part of the employee’s salary during employment, and was not an additional compensation cost. In the event that we decide to dismiss employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In particular, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns such as the recent financial turmoil may be affected. In addition, during periods of economic decline when mass layoffs become more common, local regulations may tighten the procedures by, among other things, requiring the employer to obtain approval from the relevant local authority before conducting any mass layoff. Such regulations can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 Under The New Enterprise Income Tax Law, We May Be Classified As A “Resident Enterprise” Of China, Which Will Likely Result In Unfavorable Tax Consequences To Us And Our Non-PRC Stockholders. The EIT Law and its implementing rules became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC stockholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. We may be deemed to be a resident enterprise by Chinese tax authorities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on financing proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2011 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If We Were Treated As A “Resident Enterprise” By PRC Tax Authorities, We Would Be Subject To Taxation In Both The United States And China, And Our PRC Tax May Not Be Creditable Against Our U.S. Tax. We face uncertainty from China’s Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-Resident Enterprises' Share Transfer that was released in December 2009 with retroactive effect from January 1, 2008. 17 The Chinese State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, released a circular on December 15, 2009 that addresses the transfer of shares by nonresident companies, generally referred to as Circular 698. Circular 698, which is effective retroactively to January 1, 2008, may have a significant impact on many companies that use offshore holding companies to invest in China. Circular 698, which provides parties with a short period of time to comply with its requirements, indirectly taxes foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a Chinese company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of his, her, or its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor is required to provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Moreover, where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through an abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the PRC tax authority will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with PRC’s “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. There is uncertainty as to the application of Circular 698. For example, while the term "indirectly transfer" is not defined, it is understood that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. Moreover, the relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in the country or jurisdiction and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. In addition, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized by us to balance if our Company complies with the Circular 698. As a result, we may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS We Cannot Predict Whether We Will Meet Internal or External Expectations Of Future Performance. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to significantly increase revenue from processing recycled plastic wastes. Accordingly, our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with a limited operating history. These risks include our ability to: ● develop new and innovative processing methods, including processes which increase production yield; ● respond effectively to competitive pressures and address the effects of strategic relationships or corporate combinations; ● maintain our current, and develop new, strategic relationships with customers and suppliers; ● increase awareness of our products and continue to build customer loyalty; and ● attract and retain qualified management, consultants and employees. We Cannot Assure You That Our Organic Growth Strategy Will Be Successful. One of our growth strategies is to grow organically through increasing the sale of our products by increasing our output volume and entering new markets in China and internationally. However, many obstacles to increasing our market share and entering such new markets exist, including, but not limited to, costs associated with increasing market share and entering into such markets and attendant marketing efforts. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our products in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this organic growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our ability to grow and on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 Our Business And Growth Could Suffer If We Are Unable To Hire And Retain Key Personnel That Are In High Demand. We depend upon the continued contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, including external experts and advisers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man insurance on the lives of these individuals at present. As we plan to expand, we will have to attract managerial staff. We may not be able to identify and retain qualified personnel due to our lack of understanding of different cultures and lack of local contacts. This may impede any potential expansion. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified technical, engineering, managerial, finance, marketing, security and customer service personnel in China. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain the personnel we need to succeed. We May Not Be Able To Manage Our Expanding Operations Effectively, Which Could Harm Our Business. We anticipate expanding our business as we address growth in our customer base and market opportunities. In addition, the geographic dispersion of our operations as a result of overall internal growth requires significant management resources that our locally-based competitors do not need to devote to their operations. In order to manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to improve and implement operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. Further, our management will be required to maintain and expand our strategic relationships necessary to our business. We cannot assure you that our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our future operations. If we are not successful in establishing, maintaining and managing our personnel, systems, procedures and controls, our business will be materially and adversely affected. If We Need Additional Capital To Fund Our Growing Operations, We May Not Be Able To Obtain Sufficient Capital And May Be Forced To Limit The Scope Of Our Operations. We may experience increased capital needs and we may not have enough capital to fund our future operations without additional capital investments. Our capital needs will depend on numerous factors, including (i) our profitability; (ii) the success of our competitors; (iii) the amount of our capital expenditures; and (iv) new investments. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain capital in the future to meet our needs. If we cannot obtain additional funding, we may be required to: ● reduce our investments; ● limit our expansion efforts; and ● decrease or eliminate capital expenditures. Such reductions could materially adversely affect our business and our ability to compete. Even if we do find a source of additional capital, we may not be able to negotiate terms and conditions for receiving the additional capital that are acceptable to us. Any future capital investments could dilute or otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. We cannot give you any assurance that any additional financing will be available to us, or if available, will be on terms favorable to us. We Depend On A Limited Number Of Suppliers For A Majority Of Our Supplies. The Inability To Secure Raw Materials Could Affect Our Production Output And Reduce Our Revenues. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 84% and 96% of our raw material was purchased from five major suppliers, respectively. Failure to maintain good relationships with our current suppliers or to develop a new supply source of raw materials could negatively affect our ability to obtain the raw materials used in our products in a timely manner. If we are unable to obtain ample supplies of raw material from our existing suppliers or develop alternative supply sources, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ orders which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and our relationship with our customers. Furthermore, we are dependent on our suppliers for the timely delivery of materials that we require for our operations. Should our suppliers fail to deliver such materials on time, and if we are unable to source these materials from alternative suppliers on a timely basis, our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. 19 The Success Of Our Business Is Heavily Dependent Upon Our Ability To Secure Raw Plastic. Our ability to generate revenue depends upon our ability to secure raw plastic. There is a world-wide market for these materials, and the Company faces competition from other low-cost users. To the extent that we are unable to secure enough raw plastic, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. The Chinese Government Limits The Amount Of Plastic Waste Which May Be Imported, And As Such, We May Not Be Able To Import Sufficient Raw Materials. The Chinese government limits the amount of plastic waste which may be imported into China. Although we have not experienced difficulties obtaining and renewing our import license in the past, we cannot guarantee the license will be approved in the future. If we fail to obtain the import license, we may have to use domestically supplied plastics wastes for our manufacturing. Domestic plastic wastes are typically poorly sorted, so utilizing the domestic raw material increases production costs. Our Production Costs And Revenues Are Impacted By Increases In The Cost Of Labor, Shipping And Other Expenses. The manufacturing of recycled plastics is highly labor-intensive as all raw material classification is done by hand. A sharp increase of salary or a mandatory welfare/insurance contribution by employers would cause an increase in production costs and would reduce our profit margin. Additionally, as all of the raw material used in our manufacturing is imported, an increase in the freight costs of importing such material would increase our production costs and thus negatively impact our revenues. We Are Dependent On Use Of An Import Quota Granted To Us By Another Company, The Loss Of Which Could Materially Affect Our Ability To Secure High Quality Raw Materials For Our Manufacturing Processes. In the PRC, imports of plastic waste are subject to an import quota regulated by the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We have been approved for an import quota of 100,000 tons and 80,000 tons of plastic waste in the years of 2013 and 2012, respectively. In January 2014, we have been approved for an import quota of 100,000 tons of plastic waste for the year of 2014. We have also been permitted to use of the 15,000 tons in 2013 and 35,000 tons in 2012 import quota granted to Huan Li. Huan Li’s quota is increased back to 35,000 for 2014 and accordingly we will be allowed to use Huan Li’s quota up to 35,000 tons for the year of 2014. Huan Li has not had any significant operations since 2005, but its import quota remains valid. Min Chen, our Chief Executive Officer, is the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman of the Board of Directors, and legal representative with the power to represent and act on behalf, of Huan Li. Although we have not previously experienced difficulties with regard to Huan Li permitting us to use its import quota, there can be no guarantee that the import quota will be available to us in the future. Huan Li can rescind its grant to us of the import quota at any time. If we are unable to use Huan Li’s import quota, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Without the import quota, we may have to purchase domestically supplied plastic waste for our manufacturing processes. Domestic plastic waste is typically poorly sorted, which increases our production costs and most of the plastic waste available domestically has already been recycled, and it therefore has a lower tensile force which would negatively impact the quality of our products. 20 We May Be Classified As A Passive Foreign Investment Company, Which Could Result In Adverse U.S. Tax Consequences To U.S. Investors. Based upon the nature of our income and assets, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to more burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis, and those determinations depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. We intend to operate our business so as to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment, however you should be aware that certain factors that could affect our classification as PFIC are out of our control. For example, the calculation of assets for purposes of the PFIC rules depends in large part upon the amount of our goodwill, which in turn is based, in part, on the then market value of our shares, which is subject to change. Similarly, the composition of our income and assets is affected by the extent to which we spend the cash we have raised on acquisitions and capital expenditures. In addition, the relevant authorities in this area are not clear and so we operate with less than clear guidance in our effort to minimize the risk of PFIC treatment. Therefore, we cannot be sure whether we are not and will not be a PFIC for the current or any future taxable year. In the event we are determined to be a PFIC, our stock may become less attractive to U.S. investors, which may negatively impact the price of our common stock. Environmental Compliance And Remediation Could Result In Substantially Increased Capital Requirements And Operating Costs Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Guanwei is subject to numerous Chinese provincial and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. These laws continue to evolve and are becoming increasingly stringent. The ultimate impact of complying with such laws and regulations is not always clearly known or determinable because regulations under some of these laws have not yet been promulgated or are undergoing revision. Our consolidated business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected if Guanwei were required to increase expenditures to comply with any new environmental regulations affecting its operations. We could, in the future, incur a material liability resulting from the costs of complying with environmental laws, environmental permits or any claims concerning noncompliance, or liability from contamination. Given the nature of our business, we generate waste water, exhaust fumes and noise during our production process. We have implemented a comprehensive set of environmental protection measures to treat waste water and emissions generated during our production process to minimize the impact of our production process on the environment. We cannot predict what environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted in the future, how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted or what environmental conditions may be found to exist at our facilities or at third-party sites for which we are liable. Enactment of stricter laws or regulations, stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations or the requirement to undertake the investigation or remediation of currently unknown environmental contamination at our own or third-party sites may require us to make additional expenditures, some of which could be material. If Environmental Regulation Enforcement Is Relaxed, The Demand For Our Products May Decrease. The demand for our services is substantially dependent upon the public’s concern with, and the continuation and proliferation of, the laws and regulations governing the recycling of plastic. A decrease in the level of public concern, the repeal or modification of these laws, or any significant relaxation of regulations relating to the recycling of plastic would significantly reduce the demand for our services and could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. We face Competition From Other Companies, Which Could Force Us To Lower Our Prices, Thereby Adversely Affecting Our Operating Margins, Financial Condition, Cash Flows And Profitability. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and this competition could harm our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We believe that one significant competitive factor for our products is selling price. Although we do not aspire to be the lowest cost provider but rather the highest value provider to our customers, we could be subject to adverse results caused by our competitors’ pricing decisions. If we do not compete successfully, our business, operating margins, financial condition, cash flows and profitability could be adversely affected. 21 Our Sales Are Dominated By Sales in China Which Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Business. For each of the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, substantially all of our sales were derived from customers in China. We expect that the domestic market in China will continue to be our major market. Our business is therefore heavily dependent on the demand for plastics in China and the domestic market prices of LDPE. In the event that there is any material adverse change in the level of the demand of raw material for plastic products in China or if there are a significant price fluctuations in China, our performance could be adversely affected. The Staff Of Our Accounting Department Lack Training And Experience In Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the U.S., Which May Result In Accounting Errors In The Financial Statements That We File With The Securities And Exchange Commission. Our executive offices are located in Fuqing City, Fujian Province in the PRC. Our entire bookkeeping and accounting staff is located there. Our books and records are maintained in Chinese, using Chinese accounting principles. Chinese accounting principles vary in many important respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. To file our Company’s financial statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission, our accounting staff must convert the financial statements from Chinese accounting principles to accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. However, none of the members of our accounting staff has extensive experience or training in the preparation of financial statements under accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Nor do we have any employee who has previous experience in accounting and reporting for a U.S. public company. This situation creates a risk that the financial statements we file with the SEC may fail to present our financial condition and/or results of operations as required by SEC rules and the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We Have Identified Material Weaknesses In Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. If We Fail To Develop Or Maintain An Effective System Of Internal Controls, We May Not Be Able To Accurately Report Our Financial Results and Prevent Fraud. As A Result, Current And Potential Stockholders Could Lose Confidence In Our Financial Statements, Which Would Harm The Trading Price Of Our Common Stock. Companies that file reports with the SEC, including us, are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404. SOX 404 requires management to establish and maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting. Annual reports on Form 10-K filed under the Exchange Act must contain a report from management assessing the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. Separately, under SOX 404, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, public companies that are large accelerated or accelerated filers must include in their annual reports on Form 10-K an attestation report of their principal auditors attesting to and reporting on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Non-accelerated filers and smaller reporting companies are not required to include an attestation report of their auditors in annual reports. A report of our management is included under Item 9A.“Controls and Procedures” of this report. We are a smaller reporting company and, consequently, are not required to include an attestation report of our auditor in this annual report. However, if and when we become subject to the auditor attestation requirements under SOX 404, we can provide no assurance that we will receive an unqualified report from our independent auditors. During its evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, management identified a material weakness relating to our lack of sufficient accounting personnel with an appropriate understanding of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements. We are undertaking remedial measures, which measures will take time to implement and test, to address this material weakness. There can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to remediate the material weakness identified or that additional material weaknesses or other control or significant deficiencies will not be identified in the future. If we continue to identify material weaknesses in our internal controls or fail to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, such circumstances could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements, or adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and, if required, annual auditor attestation reports. Each of the foregoing results could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price. See Item 9A.“Controls and Procedures” for more information. 22 RISKS RELATING TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our Common Stock Price May Be Volatile And Could Decline In The Future. The stock market in general and the market price for other companies based in the PRC have experienced extreme stock price fluctuations. In some cases, these fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. Many companies in China have experienced dramatic volatility in the market prices of their common stock. We believe that a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, could cause the price of our Common Stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Factors such as the following could have a significant adverse impact on the market price of our Common Stock: ● announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; ● our ability to obtain additional financing and, if available, the terms and conditions of the financing; ● our financial position and results of operations; ● litigation; ● period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; ● changes in estimates of our performance by any securities analysts; ● new regulatory requirements and changes in the existing regulatory environment; ● the issuance of new equity securities in a future offering; ● changes in interest rates; ● changes in environmental standards; ● market conditions for securities traded on the NASDAQ; ● investor perceptions of us and the plastics recycling industry generally; and ● general economic and other national conditions. The Trading Market In Our Common Stock Is Limited And May Cause Volatility In The Market Price. Our Common Stock is currently quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “GPRC”. The quotation of our Common Stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Thus, the market price for our Common Stock is subject to volatility and holders of Common Stock may be unable to resell their shares at or near their original purchase price or at any price. In the absence of an active trading market: ● investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; ● market visibility for our Common Stock may be limited; and ● a lack of visibility for our Common Stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our Common Stock. 23 We May Have Difficulty Raising Necessary Capital To Fund Operations As A Result Of Market Price Volatility For Our Shares Of Common Stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of Common Stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new technologies and to expand into new markets. The exploitation of our technologies may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Shares Eligible For Future Sale May Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Common Stock. From time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of Common Stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), subject to certain limitations. Future sales of our Common Stock by existing shareholders pursuant to Rule 144, or following the exercise of future option grants, could adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. The issuance of additional shares upon exercise of options will dilute the voting power of our current shareholders on corporate matters and, as a result, may cause the market price of our Common Stock to decrease. Further, sales of a large number of shares of Common Stock in the public market could adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock and could materially impair our future ability to generate funds through sales of Common Stock or other equity securities. One Shareholder Exercises Significant Control Over Matters Requiring Shareholder Approval. A single shareholder, Fresh Generation, has voting power equal to approximately 57.65% of our voting securities as of the date of this Annual Report. As described in greater detail later in this Annual Report, Chen Min, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, is the beneficial owner of the shares of our Common Stock held by Fresh Generation. Furthermore, Mr. Min Chen holds a portion of such shares in trust for the benefit of certain of our other directors. As a result, Mr. Min Chen and such directors, through such indirect stock ownership, can exercise control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us that may be otherwise viewed as beneficial by other shareholders. We May Incur Significant Costs To Ensure Compliance With U.S. Corporate Governance And Accounting Requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with newly applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the SEC. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our Board or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. If We Fail To Maintain An Effective System Of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, We May Be Unable To Accurately Report Our Financial Results Or Prevent Fraud, And Investor Confidence And The Market Price Of Our Shares May Be Adversely Affected. As a result of the assessment of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of December 31, 2013, we have identified the fact that we lack sufficient accounting personnel with an appropriate understanding of U.S. GAAP and SEC reporting requirements as a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A “material weakness” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remediate this material weakness. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to address any material weakness could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares, may be materially and adversely affected. 24 If We Become Directly Subject To The Recent Scrutiny, Criticism And Negative Publicity Involving U.S.-Listed Chinese Companies, We May Have To Expend Significant Resources To Investigate And Resolve The Matter Which Could Harm Our Business Operations, Stock Price And Reputation And Could Result In A Loss Of Your Investment In Our Stock, Especially If Such Matter Cannot Be Addressed And Resolved Favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits, SEC enforcement actions and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and business operations will be severely impacted and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. We May Be Required To Raise Additional Financing By Issuing New Securities With Terms Or Rights Superior To Those Of Our Shares Of Common Stock, Which Could Adversely Affect The Market Price Of Our Shares Of Common Stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, including expansion in current and new markets, development and acquisition, capital costs and the costs of any necessary implementation of technological innovations or alternative technologies. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our current shareholders will be reduced, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of Common Stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our Common Stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have some rights senior to those of the holders of shares of Common Stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on operations and create a significant interest expense for us. We May Have Difficulty Establishing Adequate Management And Financial Controls In China And In Complying With U.S. Corporate Governance And Accounting Requirements Which Could Have An Adverse Effect On Our Business The PRC has only recently begun to adopt the management and financial reporting concepts and practices that investors in the United States are familiar with. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining employees in China who have the experience necessary to implement the kind of management and financial controls that are expected of a United States public company. If we cannot establish such controls, we may experience difficulty in collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet U.S. standards, which could have an adverse effect on our business. 25 We Are Subject To The Requirements Of Section 404 Of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act Of 2002, And If We Fail To Comply In A Timely Manner, Our Business Could Be Harmed And Our Stock Price Could Decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. The standards that must be met for management to assess the internal control over financial reporting as effective are new and complex, and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards and will impose significant additional expenses on us. We may encounter problems or delays in completing activities necessary to make an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot assess our internal control over financial reporting as effective, investor confidence and share value may be negatively impacted. The Value Of Our Securities Will Be Affected By The Foreign Exchange Rate Between U.S. Dollars And Renminbi. The value of our Common Stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs and should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the Company, and the price of our Common Stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our Common Stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our China operations would be reduced. We Do Not Foresee Paying Cash Dividends In The Foreseeable Future. Although Chenxin has previously paid cash dividends to its shareholders, the Registrant has not paid cash dividends and there are no plans to pay cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. 