Item 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are certain risk factors that could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. You should carefully read the following risk factors, together with the financial statements, related notes and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that contain risks and uncertainties. Please refer to the discussion of "Forward-Looking Statements" on page one of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in connection with your consideration of the risk factors and other important factors that may affect future results described below. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to buy our common stock. Our business, financial condition and operating results may suffer if any of the following risks are realized. If any of these risks or uncertainties occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business If our carriers do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our clients, our business could suffer. The success of our business depends to a large extent on our relationships with clients and our reputation for providing high-quality technology enabled transportation and logistics services. We do not own or control the transportation assets that deliver our clients' freight, and we do not employ the people directly involved in delivering the freight. We rely on independent third-parties to provide TL, LTL, small parcel, inter-modal, domestic air, expedited and international services and to report certain information to us, including information relating to delivery status and freight claims. This reliance could cause delays in providing our clients with important service data and in the financial reporting of certain events, including recognizing revenue and recording claims. If we are unable to secure sufficient transportation services to meet our commitments to our clients, our operating results could be adversely affected, and our clients could switch to our competitors temporarily or permanently. Many of these risks are beyond our control and difficult to anticipate, including: •changes in rates charged by transportation providers; •supply shortages in the transportation industry, particularly among truckload carriers; •interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes; and •changes in regulations impacting transportation. If any of the third-parties we rely on do not meet our needs or expectations, or those of our clients, our professional reputation may be damaged and our business could be harmed. For international shipments, we currently rely on one carrier to provide substantially all of our transportation. If this carrier fails to meet our needs or expectations, our ability to offer international shipping services could be delayed or disrupted, and our costs may increase. In 2008 and 2009, international shipments accounted for 4% and 3% of our revenue, respectively. Competition could substantially impair our business and our operating results. Competition in the transportation services industry is intense. We compete against other non-asset-based logistics companies as well as asset-based logistics companies; freight forwarders that dispatch shipments via asset-based carriers; carriers offering logistics services; internal shipping departments at companies that have substantial transportation requirements; large business process outsourcing (BPO) service providers; and smaller, niche service providers that provide services in a specific geographic market, industry segment or service area. We also compete against carriers' internal sales forces and shippers' transportation departments. At times, we buy transportation services from our competitors. 20 Table of Contents Historically, competition has created a downward pressure on freight rates, and continuation of this rate pressure may adversely affect the Company's revenue and income from operations. In addition, a software platform and database similar to ETM could be created over time by a competitor with sufficient financial resources and comparable experience in the transportation services industry. If our competitors are able to offer comparable services, we could lose clients, and our market share and profit margin could decline. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships to increase their ability to address client needs. Increased competition may lead to revenue reductions, reduced profit margins or a loss of market share, any one of which could harm our business. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively limited number of large clients and any loss of, or decrease in sales to, these clients could harm our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a relatively limited number of large clients. Revenue from our five largest clients, collectively, accounted for 19% of our revenue in 2009, and revenue from our 10 largest clients, collectively, accounted for 27% of our revenue in 2009. We are likely to continue to experience ongoing customer concentration, particularly if we are successful in attracting large enterprise clients. It is possible that revenue from these clients, either individually or as a group, may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. The loss or significant reduction of business from one or more of our major clients would adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to expand the number of our sales representatives and agents, or if a significant number of our sales representatives and agents leaves us, our ability to increase our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our ability to expand our business will depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional sales representatives and agents with established client relationships. Competition for qualified sales representatives and agents can be intense, and we may be unable to hire such persons. Any difficulties we experience in expanding the number of our sales representatives and agents could have a negative impact on our ability to expand our client base, increase our revenue and continue our growth. In addition, we must retain our current sales representatives and agents and properly incentivize them to obtain new clients and maintain existing client relationships. If a significant number of our sales representatives and agents leave us, our revenue could be negatively impacted. We have entered into agreements with our sales representatives and agents that contain non-compete provisions to mitigate this risk, but we may need to litigate to enforce our rights under these agreements, which could be time-consuming, expensive and ineffective. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our current sales representatives and agents could also increase our recruiting costs and decrease our operating efficiency, which could lead to a decline in the demand for our services. If our services do not achieve widespread commercial acceptance, our business will suffer. Many companies coordinate the procurement and management of their logistics needs with their own employees using a combination of telephone, facsimile, e-mail and the Internet. Growth in the demand for our services depends on the adoption of our technology enabled transportation and logistics services. We may not be able to persuade prospective clients to change their traditional transportation management processes. Our business could suffer if our services are not accepted by the marketplace. We may not be able to develop or implement new systems, procedures and controls that are required to support the anticipated growth in our operations. Our revenue increased to $259.6 million in 2009 from $7.3 million in 2005, representing an annual revenue growth rate of 353% from 2005 to 2006, 188% from 2006 to 2007, 112% from 2007 to 2008 21 Table of Contents and 28% from 2008 to 2009. Between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2009, the number of our employees, agents and independent contractors increased from 44 to 663. Continued growth could place a significant strain on our ability to: •recruit, motivate and retain qualified sales representatives and agents, carrier representatives and management personnel; •develop and improve our internal administrative infrastructure and execution standards; and •expand and maintain the operation of our technology infrastructure in a manner that preserves a quality customer experience. To manage our growth, we must implement and maintain proper operational and financial controls and systems. Further, we will need to manage our relationships with various clients and carriers. We cannot give any assurance that we will be able to develop and implement, on a timely basis, the systems, procedures and controls required to support the growth in our operations or effectively manage our relationships with various clients and carriers. If we are unable to manage our growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain ETM, our proprietary software, demand for our services and our revenue could decrease. We rely heavily on ETM, our proprietary software, to track and store externally and internally generated market data, analyze the capabilities of our carrier network and recommend cost-effective carriers in the appropriate transportation mode. To keep pace with changing technologies and client demands, we must correctly interpret and address market trends and enhance the features and functionality of our proprietary technology platform in response to these trends, which may lead to significant ongoing research and development costs. We may be unable to accurately determine the needs of our clients and the trends in the transportation services industry or to design and implement the appropriate features and functionality of our technology platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, which could result in decreased demand for our services and a corresponding decrease in our revenue. Despite testing, we may be unable to detect defects in existing or new versions of our proprietary software, or errors may arise in our software. Any failure to identify and address such defects or errors could result in loss of revenue or market share, liability to clients or others, diversion of resources, injury to our reputation, and increased service and maintenance costs. Correction of such errors could prove to be impossible or very costly, and responding to resulting claims or liability could similarly involve substantial cost. We have not registered any patents nor trademarks to date, and our inability to protect our intellectual property rights may impair our competitive position. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could harm our competitive position. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring all of our employees and independent contractors to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements. To date we have not pursued patent protection for our technology. We also have not registered trademarks to protect our brands. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or will prevent third-parties from infringing or misappropriating our rights; imitating or duplicating our technology, services or methodologies, including ETM; or using trademarks similar to ours. Should we need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the rights of others, such litigation could be time-consuming and costly, and the result of any litigation is subject to uncertainty. In addition, ETM incorporates open source software components that are 22 Table of Contents licensed to us under various public domain licenses. Although we believe that we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for the open source software that we use, there is little or no legal precedent governing the interpretation of many of the terms of these licenses, and the potential impact of such terms on our business is, therefore, difficult to predict. We may be sued by third-parties for alleged infringement of their intellectual or proprietary rights. Our use of ETM or other technologies could be challenged by claims that such use infringes, misappropriates or otherwise violates the intellectual property rights of third-parties. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to resolve, could divert management's attention from our business and could require us to pay substantial monetary damages. Any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from such a claim could require us to enter into a licensing agreement to continue using the technology that is the subject of the claim, or could otherwise restrict or prohibit our use of such technology. There can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, from the party asserting an infringement claim, or that we would be able to develop or license a suitable alternative technology to permit us to continue offering the affected services to our clients. Our insurance coverage for claims of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of the intellectual property rights of third-parties may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims against us, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. An uninsured or underinsured claim could result in unanticipated costs thereby reducing operating results. We have a long selling cycle to secure a new enterprise contract and a long implementation cycle, which require significant investments of resources. We typically face a long selling cycle to secure a new enterprise contract, which requires significant investment of resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to spend time and resources educating them on the value of our services and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our clients then evaluate our services before deciding whether to use them. Therefore, our enterprise selling cycle, which can take up to six months, is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little control, including our clients' decisions to choose alternatives to our services (such as other providers or in-house resources) and the timing of our clients' budget cycles and approval processes. Implementing our enterprise services, which can take from one to six months, involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Depending on the scope and complexity of the processes being implemented, these time periods may be significantly longer. Our clients and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, as we do not recognize significant revenue until after we have completed the implementation phase. Our clients may terminate their relationships with us on short notice with limited or no penalties, and our clients are not obligated to spend a minimum amount with us. Our transactional clients, which accounted for approximately 57% and 58% of our revenue in 2008 and 2009, respectively, use our services on a shipment-by-shipment basis rather than under long-term contracts. These clients have no obligation to continue using our services and may stop using them at any time without penalty or with only limited penalties. Our contracts with enterprise clients typically have terms of one to three years and are subject to termination provisions negotiated on a contract-by-contract basis. These termination provisions typically provide the client with the ability to terminate upon 30 or 60 days' advance written notice in the event of a material breach. Included as a material 23 Table of Contents breach is the Company's failure to provide the negotiated level of cost savings. In some cases, the enterprise contracts may be terminated by providing written notice within 60 days of execution or may be terminated upon 60 to 90 days' advanced written notice for any reason. Enterprise contracts accounting for 10.0% and 14.4% of our revenue in 2009 are scheduled to expire (subject to possible renewal) in 2010 and 2011, respectively. The volume and type of services we provide each client may vary from year to year and could be reduced if the client were to change its outsourcing or shipping strategy. Our enterprise clients generally are not obligated to spend any particular amount with us, although our enterprise contracts are typically exclusive with respect to point of origin or one or more modes of transportation, meaning that the client is obligated to use us if it ships from the point of origin or uses those modes. These contractual exclusivity provisions help ensure, but do not guarantee, that we receive a significant portion of the amount that our enterprise clients spend on transportation in the applicable mode or modes or from the applicable point of origin. In our experience, compliance with such provisions varies from client to client and over time. Failure to comply with these exclusivity provisions may adversely affect our revenue. If a significant number of our transactional or enterprise clients elect to terminate or not to renew their engagements with us, or if the volume of their shipping orders decreases, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. If we are unable to renew our enterprise contracts at favorable rates, our revenue may decline. If we are unable to deliver agreed upon cost savings to our enterprise clients, we could lose those clients and our results could suffer. Our contracts with enterprise clients typically commit us to deliver a negotiated level of cost savings compared to our clients' historical shipping expenditures over a fixed period of time. We then estimate cost savings periodically during the term of our engagement and if the negotiated amount is not achieved, the client has the right to terminate the contract. Any number of factors, including a downturn in the economy, increases in costs, or decreases in the availability of transportation capacity, could impair our ability to provide the agreed cost savings. Even if our enterprise clients do not terminate their contracts with us as a result, our results of operations will suffer, and it may become more difficult to attract new enterprise clients. The current economic conditions of the global and domestic economy, or a substantial or prolonged downturn in our clients' business cycle, may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition are materially affected by the conditions in the global and domestic economy. The stress experienced by the global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007, substantially increased during the second half of 2008 and continued during 2009. Concerns over unemployment, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the financial markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices and low business and consumer confidence, have precipitated a recession. These events and the continuing market upheavals may have an adverse affect on us, our carriers and our clients. Carriers may charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses such as higher fuel prices, costs associated with regulatory compliance and other factors beyond our control. Our gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to pass through to our clients the full amount of these higher transportation costs. In addition, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted by decreases in the volume of freight shipped by our clients due to decreases in their business volume or price increases by our carriers. If we are not able 24 Table of Contents to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult economic environment, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. High fuel prices may increase carrier prices and volatility in fuel prices may make it more difficult to pass through this cost to our clients, which may impair our operating results. Fuel prices recently reached historically high levels in the past couple years and continue to be volatile and difficult to predict. In the event fuel prices rise, carriers can be expected to charge higher prices to cover higher operating expenses, and our gross profits and income from operations may decrease if we are unable to continue to pass through to our clients the full amount of these higher costs. Higher fuel costs could also cause material shifts in the percentage of our revenue by transportation mode, as our clients may elect to utilize alternative transportation modes, such as inter-modal. In addition, increased volatility in fuel prices may affect our gross profits and income from operations if we are not able to pass through to our clients any higher costs associated with such volatility. Any material shifts to transportation modes with respect to which we realize lower gross profit margins could impair our operating results. A decrease in levels of excess capacity in the U.S. transportation services industry could have an adverse impact on our business. We believe that, historically, the U.S. transportation services industry has experienced significant levels of excess capacity. Our business seeks to capitalize on imbalances between supply and demand in the transportation services industry by obtaining favorable pricing terms from carriers in our network through a competitive bid process. Reduced excess capacity in the transportation services industry generally, and in our carrier network specifically, could have an adverse impact on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business results and growth prospects. A decrease in the number of carriers participating in our network could adversely affect our business. We use our proprietary technology platform to compile freight and logistics data from our network of over 24,000 carriers. In 2009, we used approximately 6,200 TL carriers, 100 LTL carriers, 16 small parcel carriers, 57 inter-modal carriers, 12 domestic air carriers and 80 international carriers. We expect to continue to rely on these carriers to fulfill our shipping orders in the future. However, these carriers are not contractually required to continue to accept orders from us. If shipping capacity at a significant number of these carriers becomes unavailable, we will be required to use fewer carriers, which could significantly limit our ability to serve our clients on competitive terms. The transportation industry has also experienced consolidation among carriers in recent years and further consolidations could result in a decrease in the number of carriers, which may impact our ability to serve our clients on competitive terms. In addition, we rely on price bids provided by our carriers to populate our database. If the number of our carriers decreases significantly, we may not be able to obtain sufficient pricing information for ETM, which could affect our ability to obtain favorable pricing for our clients. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients, and we extend credit to certain clients as part of our business model. In most cases, we take full risk of credit loss for the transportation services we procure from carriers. Our obligation to pay our carriers is not contingent upon receipt of payment from our clients. In 2008 and 2009, our revenue was $202.8 million and $259.6 million, respectively, and our top 10 clients accounted for 35% and 27% of our revenue, respectively. If any of our key clients fail to pay for our services, our profitability would be negatively impacted. We extend credit to certain clients in the ordinary course of business as part of our business model. By extending credit, we increase our exposure to uncollected receivables. The current economic 25 Table of Contents conditions of the global and domestic economy have resulted in an increasing trend of business failures, downsizing and delinquencies, which may cause an increase in our credit risk. If we fail to monitor and manage effectively any increased credit risk, our immediate and long-term liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, if one of our key clients defaults in paying us, our profitability would be negatively impacted. A prolonged outage of our ETM database could result in reduced revenue and the loss of clients. The success of our business depends upon our ability to deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. We rely on our Internet access, computer equipment, software applications, database storage facilities and other office equipment, which are mainly located in our Chicago headquarters. Our operations and those of our carriers and clients are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, computer viruses, hacker attacks, equipment failure, physical break-ins and other events beyond our control, including disasters affecting Chicago. We attempt to mitigate these risks through various means, including system backup and security measures, but our precautions will not protect against all potential problems. We maintain fully redundant off-site backup facilities for our internet access, computer equipment, software applications, database storage and network equipment, but these facilities could be subject to the same interruptions that could affect our headquarters. If we suffer a database or network facility outage, our business could experience disruption, and we could suffer reduced revenue and the loss of clients. Our ETM technology platform relies heavily on our telecommunication service providers, our electronic delivery systems and the Internet, which exposes us to a number of risks over which we have no control, including risks with respect to increased prices, termination, failures and disruptions of essential services. Our ability to deliver our services depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of services provided to us by our telecommunication service providers, our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of these services or whether the vendors will improve their services or continue to provide services that are essential to our business. In addition, our telecommunication service providers may increase their prices at which they provide services, which would increase our costs. If our telecommunication service providers were to cease to provide essential services or to significantly increase their prices, we could be required to find alternative vendors for these services. With a limited number of vendors, we could experience significant delays in obtaining new or replacement services, which could significantly harm our reputation and could cause us to lose clients and revenue. Moreover, our ability to deliver information using the Internet may be impaired because of infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. If disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to effectively provide technology enabled transportation and supply chain management services and to serve our clients may be impaired. We are subject to claims arising from our transportation operations. We use the services of thousands of transportation companies and their drivers in connection with our transportation operations. From time to time, these drivers are involved in accidents or goods carried by these drivers are lost or damaged and the carriers may not have adequate insurance coverage. Although these drivers are not our employees and all of these drivers are employees or independent contractors working for carriers or are owner-operators, from time to time, claims may be asserted against us for their actions, or for our actions in retaining them. Claims against us may exceed the amount of our insurance coverage, or may not be covered by insurance at all. If a shipment is lost or damaged during the delivery process, a client may file a claim for the damaged shipment with us and we will bear the risk of recovering the claim amount from the carrier. If we are unable to recover all or any portion of the claim amount from the carrier, and to the extent each claim exceeds the 26 Table of Contents amount which may be recovered from the Company's own insurance, we may bear the financial loss. A material increase in the frequency or severity of accidents, claims for lost or damaged goods, liability claims or workers' compensation claims, or unfavorable resolutions of claims, could materially adversely affect our operating results. Significant increases in insurance costs or the inability to purchase insurance as a result of these claims could also reduce our profitability. Our industry is subject to seasonal sales fluctuations. If our business experiences seasonality, it could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our industry is subject to some degree of seasonal sales fluctuations as shipments generally are lower during and after the winter holiday season because many of our retail clients ship goods and stock inventories prior to the winter holiday season. If we were to experience lower-than-expected revenue during any such period, whether from a general decline in economic conditions or other factors beyond our control, our expenses may not be offset, which would have a disproportionately adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition for that period. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our business, prospects and future financial performance. We formed our business in January 2005 and have a limited operating history, which makes evaluating our current business and prospects difficult. The revenue and income potential of our business is uncertain, which makes it difficult to accurately predict our future financial performance. We incurred net losses of $0.5 million in 2005 and $0.2 million in 2006, and we may incur net losses in the future. We may also face periods where our financial performance falls below investor expectations. As a result, the price of our common stock may decline. Because many of the members of our management team have been employed with us for a short period of time, we cannot be certain that they will be able to manage our business successfully. We are dependent on our management team for our business to be successful. Because of our limited operating history, many of our key management personnel have been employed by us for less than three years. Therefore, we cannot be certain that we will be able to allocate responsibilities appropriately and that the new members of our management team will succeed in their roles. Our inability to integrate recent additions to our current management team with our business model would make it difficult for us to manage our business successfully and to pursue our growth strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, effectively integrate newly acquired businesses or achieve expected profitability from acquisitions. Part of our growth strategy is to increase our revenue and the market regions that we serve through the acquisition of complementary businesses. There can be no assurance that suitable candidates for acquisitions can be identified or, if suitable candidates are identified, that acquisitions can be completed on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if suitable candidates are identified, any future acquisitions may entail a number of risks that could adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock, including the integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management's attention, risks of entering new market regions in which we have limited experience, adverse short-term effects on our reported operating results, the potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses and risks associated with unanticipated liabilities. We may use our common stock to pay for acquisitions. If the owners of potential acquisition candidates are not willing to receive our common stock in exchange for their businesses, our acquisition prospects could be limited. Future acquisitions could also result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and increased debt and contingent liabilities, including liabilities related to unknown or undisclosed circumstances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and the market price of our common stock. 27 Table of Contents We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have limited operating experience. We provide transportation services within and between continents on an increasing basis. In 2008 and 2009, international transportation accounted for 4% and 3% of revenue, respectively. We intend to continue expanding our global footprint, specifically in international-air and ocean modes, in order to maintain an appropriate cost structure and meet our clients' delivery needs. This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate. Our business outside of the United States is subject to various risks, including: •changes in economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad; •changes in compliance with international and domestic laws and regulations; •wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts; •natural disasters; •changes in tariffs, trade restrictions, trade agreements and taxations; •difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations; •limitations on the repatriation of funds because of foreign exchange controls; •less developed and less predictable legal systems than those in the United States; and •intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. As we expand our business in foreign countries, we will become exposed to increased risk of loss from foreign currency fluctuations and exchange controls as well as longer accounts receivable payment cycles. We have limited control over these risks, and if we do not correctly anticipate changes in international economic and political conditions, we may not alter our business practices in time to avoid adverse effects. If we are unable to manage the risks and challenges associated with our operations in India, the growth of our business could be impacted. In 2005, we expanded our business operations to include facilities in Kolkata and Pune, India. These facilities, which provide customer support and administrative services, accounted for approximately 8% of our workforce as of December 31, 2009. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to our operations in India, including the following: •wages in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the North America, which may result in increased costs for our Indian workforce; •the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and the U.S. dollar has changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. An appreciation of the Indian rupee against the U.S. dollar or a fluctuation in interest rates in India may have an adverse effect on our cost of revenue, gross profit margin and net income, which may in turn have a negative impact on our business, operating results and financial condition; and •we do not currently employ our Indian workforce directly but rather contract with an independent third-party to provide and train workers through our build, operate, transfer (BOT) arrangements. Although additional hiring may be necessary, we are able to provide all of the services performed by our Indian workforce through our domestic operations. In addition, we 28 Table of Contents believe that we could replace our BOT arrangement over time with other arrangements in India or in another low cost foreign labor market. However, a significant failure by our independent contractor to provide and train Indian workers under our existing BOT arrangement could result in increased costs and disruptions or delays in the provision of our services and could distract our management from operating and growing our business. Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could result in substantial fines or penalties. From time to time, we arrange for the movement of hazardous materials at the request of our clients. As a result, we are subject to various environmental laws and regulations relating to the handling, transport and disposal of hazardous materials. If our clients or carriers are involved in a spill or other accident involving hazardous materials, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties, response or remediation costs, and civil and criminal liability, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, current and future national laws and multilateral agreements relating to carbon emissions and the effects of global warming can be expected to have a significant impact on the transportation sector generally and the operations and profitability of some of our carriers in particular, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business depends on compliance with many government regulations. International and domestic transportation of goods is subject to a number of governmental regulations, including licensing and financial security requirements, import and export regulations, security requirements, packaging regulations and notification requirements. These regulations and requirements are subject to change based on new legislation and regulatory initiatives, which could affect the economics of the transportation industry by requiring changes in operating practices or influencing the demand for, and the cost of providing, transportation services. We are licensed by the U.S. Department of Transportation as a broker authorized to arrange for the transportation of general commodities by motor vehicle. We must comply with certain insurance and surety bond requirements to act in this capacity. Prior to the completion of this offering, we expect to obtain an ocean transportation intermediary license from the Federal Maritime Commission to act as an ocean freight forwarder and as a non-vessel operating common carrier. The application for our ocean transportation intermediary license has been submitted, and we expect to be issued the license upon the completion of certain compliance requirements. We are currently providing customs broker services through contacts with licensed customs brokers. We are in the process of obtaining a license as a customs broker, and as a licensed customs broker we will be required to comply with applicable customs and customs broker regulations. We intend to register as an indirect air carrier with the Transportation Security Administration, and as a registered indirect air carrier we will be required to comply with air security regulations imposed by the Transportation Security Administration. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as security costs, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. No assurances can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients in the form of rate increases or surcharges. If the key members of our management team do not remain with us in the future, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success may depend to a significant extent on the continued services of Douglas R. Waggoner, our Chief Executive Officer; David B. Menzel, our Chief Financial Officer; and Samuel K. 29 Table of Contents Skinner, our non-executive Chairman. The loss of the services of any of these or other individuals could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition and could divert other senior management time in searching for their replacements. Our management team has limited experience managing a public company, and regulatory compliance may divert its attention from the day-to-day management of our business. The individuals who now constitute our management team have limited experience managing a publicly-traded company and limited experience complying with the increasingly complex laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team may not successfully or efficiently manage our transition into a public company that will be subject to significant regulatory oversight and reporting obligations under federal securities laws. In particular, these new obligations will require substantial attention from our senior management and divert their attention away from the day-to-day management of our business, which could materially and adversely impact our business operations. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. We will face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we do not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the requirements of Section 404, as well as new rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and The Nasdaq Global Market, imposes additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. We expect that compliance with these public company requirements will increase our costs and make some activities more time-consuming. A number of those requirements will require us to carry out activities we have not done previously. For example, we will create new board committees and adopt new internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we will incur additional expenses associated with our SEC reporting requirements. For example, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for our annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, we will need to document and test our internal control procedures, our management will need to assess and report on the effectiveness of on our internal control over financial reporting and our independent accountants will need to issue an opinion on the effectiveness of those controls. Furthermore, if we identify any issues in complying with those requirements (for example, if we or our accountants identified a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting), we could incur additional costs rectifying those issues, and the existence of those issues could adversely affect us, our reputation or investor perceptions of us. We also expect that it will be difficult and expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Advocacy efforts by stockholders and third-parties may also prompt even more changes in governance and reporting requirements. We expect that the additional reporting and other obligations imposed on us by these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and the costs of our related legal, accounting and administrative activities by approximately $1.4 million per year. These increased costs will require us to divert a significant amount of money that we could otherwise use to expand our business and achieve our strategic objectives. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from growing. We may in the future be required to raise capital through public or private financing or other arrangements. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business. Additional equity financing may dilute the interests of our common stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants and 30 Table of Contents could reduce our profitability. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to grow our business or respond to competitive pressures. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The trading prices of many newly publicly-traded companies are highly volatile. Since our initial public offering in October 2009 through March 16, 2010, the closing sale price of our common stock as reported by the Nasdaq Global Market has ranged from a low of $10.31 on February 10, 2010 to a high of $15.18 on November 11, 2009. Certain factors may continue to cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate, including: •fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; •changes in market valuations of similar companies; •success of competitive products or services; •changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of debt or equity securities; •announcements by us, our competitors, our clients or our suppliers of significant products or services, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; •regulatory developments in the United States or foreign countries; •litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; •additions or departures of key personnel; •investors' general perception of us; and •changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, as a result of the current economic crisis, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. The current economic environment has negatively affected demand for our services. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall. Because a limited number of stockholders will control the majority of the voting power of our common stock, investors in this offering will not be able to determine the outcome of stockholder votes. Eric P. Lefkofsky, Richard A. Heise, Jr., Bradley A. Keywell, affiliates of the Nazarian family and affiliates of New Enterprise Associates, directly or indirectly, beneficially own and have the ability to exercise voting control over, in the aggregate, 61% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders are able to exercise significant control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, any amendments to our certificate of incorporation and significant corporate transactions. These stockholders may exercise this control even if they are opposed by our other stockholders. Without the consent of these stockholders, we could be delayed or prevented from entering into transactions (including the acquisition of our company by third-parties) that may be viewed as beneficial to us or our other stockholders. In addition, this significant concentration of stock ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock if investors perceive disadvantages in owning stock in a company with controlling stockholders. 31 Table of Contents Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in our failure to meet the expectations of investors and increased volatility of our stock price. The continued use of our services by our clients depends, in part, on the business activity of our clients and our ability to meet their cost saving needs, as well as their own changing business conditions. In addition, a significant percentage of our revenue is subject to the discretion of our transactional clients, who may stop using our services at any time, and the transportation industry in which we operate is subject to some degree of seasonal sales fluctuations as shipments generally are lower during and after the winter holiday season because many of our retail clients ship goods and stock inventories prior to the winter holiday season. Therefore, the number, size and profitability of shipments may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. As a result, our quarterly operating results are difficult to predict and may fall below the expectations of current or potential investors in some future quarters, which could lead to a significant decline in the market price of our stock and volatility in our stock price. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. We do not currently intend to pay dividends, which may limit the return on your investment in us. We currently intend to retain all available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. If our board of directors authorizes the issuance of preferred stock, holders of our common stock could be diluted and harmed. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to establish the preferred stock's voting powers, preferences and other rights and qualifications without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and dividend liquidation rights of the holders of common stock. In addition, the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discouraging a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock or otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. It is possible that we may need, or find it advantageous, to raise capital through the sale of preferred stock in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved staff comments None. 32 Table of Contents 