Risk Factors Certain statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including certain statements contained in “Description of Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis,” constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words or phrases “can be,” “may,” “could,” “would,” “expects,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” “projects” and similar words and phrases are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various known and unknown risks and uncertainties, including those described on the following pages, and we caution you that any forward-looking information provided by us is not a guarantee of future performance. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. All such forward-looking statements are current only as of the date on which such statements were made. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which any such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition We have had negative cash flows from operations and might not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our existing indebtedness and any additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our financial health. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. We expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2010, we were obligated to pay the following indebtedness: · an aggregate of $1,573,000 in principal under promissory notes issued to Paramount Credit Partners, an affiliate of Paramount BioSciences, of which Dr. Lindsay A. Rosenwald, our largest stockholder, is the sole member, which are due on the earlier of December 31, 2013 or the completion by us of a transaction, or series of related transactions, subsequent to our initial public offering, including an equity offering, sale of assets, licensing or strategic partnership, in which we raise at least $5,000,000 in gross cash proceeds; 32 · $800,000 in principal under a promissory note issued to Israel Discount Bank of New York, which is guaranteed by Lindsay A. Rosenwald, the sole member of Paramount BioSciences, which is due on September 22, 2011, but which we agreed with Dr. Rosenwald to repay upon the completion of our initial public offering (we repaid this in January 2011 with proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option on January 7, 2011); and · $420,000 in principal under a promissory note issued to Israel Discount Bank of New York, which is guaranteed by Lindsay A. Rosenwald, which is due on demand or on November 4, 2011, but which we agreed with Dr. Rosenwald to pay upon the completion of our initial public offering (we repaid this in January 2011 with proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters’ over-allotment option on January 7, 2011). There can be no assurance that we will be in a position to pay any of this indebtedness when due or obtain extensions of the maturity dates. We anticipate that we will need to secure additional funding in order for us to be able to pay our obligations when due. Moreover, this level of debt could have important consequences to our stockholders. For example, it could: · make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to any other indebtedness and obligations, including payments owed to our licensors; · limit our flexibility in planning for the development, clinical testing, approval and marketing of our products; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any of our competitors that are less leveraged than we are; · increase our vulnerability to both general and industry-specific adverse economic conditions; and · limit our ability to obtain additional funds. The addition of further debt to our current debt levels could make it more difficult for us to repay our indebtedness and meet our other obligations and would intensify the leverage-related risks that we now face. Our failure to meet our substantial obligations to our licensors could result in the termination of our licenses or put substantial burdens on our financial position. We have in-licensed all of our product candidates. Our licenses require us to make substantial up-front, milestone, and royalty payments. If we fail to make these payments, the licensors might terminate the licenses on relatively short notice, in which event we would not be able to commercialize drug candidates that were covered by the licenses. We license two of our product candidates, VEN 307 and VEN 308, from S.L.A. Pharma, a Swiss corporation, and have obligations related to VEN 308 and to fund S.L.A. Pharma’s development efforts for VEN 307 in the E.U., all of which are set forth in the chart below. Amount Due Date Due Fee Description $41,500 Monthly beginning October 1, 2010, and continuing until S.L.A. Pharma is no longer managing the development program for VEN 307. Project management fees for VEN 307. $800,000 Upon the completion of enrollment into the Phase III clinical trial that S.L.A. Pharma is conducting in Europe, anticipated at the end of 2011. Development costs for VEN 307. Up to $400,000 If contingencies are met, payable monthly as invoiced by S.L.A. Pharma. Development expenses for VEN 307. Contingent upon (i) receipt of a final study report from the S.L.A. Pharma Phase III VEN 307 trial in Europe (anticipated in the third quarter of 2012), and (ii) if we have raised net proceeds of at least $20.0 million from sales of securities and/or licensing of rights to our products by that time. 33 In addition, if we commercialize a product candidate, we must pay S.L.A. Pharma annual royalties ranging from the mid to upper single digit percentages, based upon net sales of the product. We also are required to make future milestone payments totaling up to $20 million upon the achievement of various milestones related to regulatory events for both VEN 307 and VEN 308, the earliest of which is not anticipated until 2015. In the event we breach these obligations, we could lose our rights to VEN 307 or VEN 308, or both, depending on the breach, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We have also entered into a license agreement with Amer, a California company, whereby we acquired patent rights to iferanserin, VEN 309, for the topical treatment of anorectal disorders. We are required to make future milestone payments totaling up to $20 million upon the achievement of various milestones related to regulatory or commercial events. If we commercialize iferanserin, we will be obligated to pay to Amer annual royalties ranging from the upper single to lower double digit percentages for sales in the U.S. and ranging from the low to mid single digit percentages for sales outside of the U.S., based upon sales of the product. In the event we breach these obligations, we could lose rights to VEN 309, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited operating history and a history of operating losses, and expect to incur significant additional operating losses. We were established in October 2005, began active operations in the spring of 2007 and have only a limited operating history. Therefore, there is limited historical financial information upon which to base an evaluation of our performance. Our prospects must be considered in light of the uncertainties, risks, expenses, and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in their early stages of operations. We have generated losses since we began operations and, as of December 31, 2010, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of $33,184,354. We expect to incur substantial additional losses over the next several years as our research, development, pre-clinical testing, and clinical trial activities increase. The amount of future losses and when, if ever, we will achieve profitability are uncertain. We have no products that have generated any commercial revenue, do not expect to generate revenues from the commercial sale of products unless and until our product candidates are approved by the FDA for sale, and might never generate revenues from the sale of products. We are not currently profitable and might never become profitable. We have a history of losses and expect to incur substantial losses and negative operating cash flow for the foreseeable future, and we might never achieve or maintain profitability. Even if we succeed in developing and commercializing one or more product candidates, we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We also expect to continue to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we: 34 · continue to undertake development and clinical trials for product candidates; · seek regulatory approvals for product candidates; · implement additional internal systems and infrastructure; and · hire additional personnel. Our ability to generate revenue and achieve profitability will depend on, among other things: · successful completion of animal tests, which are referred to as pre-clinical studies, as well as human tests, which are referred to as clinical trials, for our product candidates; · obtaining necessary regulatory approvals from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; · establishing manufacturing, sales, and marketing arrangements with third parties; and · raising sufficient funds to finance our activities. We might not succeed at any of these undertakings. If we are unsuccessful at some or all of these undertakings, our business, prospects, and results of operations might be materially adversely affected. We expect to experience negative cash flow for the foreseeable future as we fund our operating losses and capital expenditures. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenues in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We might not be able to generate these revenues or achieve profitability in the future. Our failure to achieve or maintain profitability would negatively impact the value of our common stock. We have no approved products. To date, we have no approved product on the market and have generated no product revenues. Unless and until we receive approval from the FDA and other regulatory authorities for our product candidates, we cannot sell our drugs and will not have product revenues. Therefore, for the foreseeable future, we will have to fund all of our operations and capital expenditures from the net proceeds of this offering, cash on hand, licensing fees and grants and future securities offerings. We are a development-stage company and might not be able to commercialize any product candidates. We are a development-stage company and have not demonstrated our ability to perform the functions necessary for the successful commercialization of any product candidates. The successful commercialization of any product candidates will require us to perform a variety of functions, including: · continuing to undertake preclinical development and clinical trials; · participating in regulatory approval processes; · formulating and manufacturing products; and · conducting sales, marketing and distribution activities. Our development of current and future product candidates is subject to the risks of failure and delay inherent in the development of new pharmaceutical products and products based on new technologies, including: · delays in product development, clinical testing, or manufacturing; · unplanned expenditures in product development, clinical testing, or manufacturing; · failure of a product candidate to demonstrate acceptable safety and efficacy; · failure to receive regulatory approvals; · emergence of superior or equivalent products; · inability to manufacture on our own, or through any others, product candidates on a commercial scale or at a financially viable cost; and · failure to achieve market acceptance. 35 Because of these risks, our research and development efforts might not result in any commercially viable products. If we do not successfully complete a significant portion of these development efforts, obtain required regulatory approvals, or have commercial success with any approved products, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. We will need additional financing to fund our activities in the future. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. We expect that our resources on hand as of the date of this report will provide us with sufficient capital to fund our operations into the third quarter of 2012. However, we might consume our available capital before that time if, for example, we are not efficient in developing our product candidates and conducting clinical trials or if regulatory requirements change. Moreover, we believe we will require substantial funds in the future to support our operations. We anticipate that to complete the clinical trial process to obtain the approval of our product candidates will cost approximately $15 million for VEN 307, $20 million for VEN 308 and $20 million for VEN 309. We might seek equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations. However, there is no assurance that we will be successful in raising the additional capital we need to fund our business plan on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If we do not succeed in raising additional funds on acceptable terms, we might be unable to initiate or complete clinical trials or obtain approval of any product candidate from the FDA and other regulatory authorities. In addition, we could be forced to discontinue product development, forego sales and marketing efforts, sacrifice attractive business opportunities, cease operations entirely and sell or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of our remaining assets. We are dependent on license relationships. We have acquired, by license, technology that is critical to our business, and we might enter into additional licenses in the future. Licenses to which we are a party contain, and we expect that any future licenses will contain, provisions requiring up-front, milestone, and royalty payments to licensors. If we fail to comply with these obligations to a licensor, that licensor might have the right to terminate the license on relatively short notice, in which event we would not be able to commercialize drug candidates or technologies that were covered by the license. Also, the milestone and other payments associated with these licenses will make it less profitable for us to develop our drug candidates. We have identified material weaknesses in our financial reporting process. We have identified material weaknesses in our financial reporting process with respect to lack of accounting expertise, segregation of duties and lack of independent review over financial reporting. We have also identified numerous errors in the accounting for routine transactions and non-routine, complex transactions, including with respect to the valuation of common stock and derivative securities, the recording of debt discount and related amortization for warrants issued in connection with debt financings and calculation of deferred tax assets. The material weaknesses identified with respect to lack of accounting expertise and segregation of duties relate to the policies and procedures that: · pertain to the procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed is properly gathered and reported; · pertain to the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of our assets; · provide reasonable assurance that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and 36 · provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. We have taken the following measures to address the material weaknesses identified by us and improve our periodic financial statement reporting process: · hired a permanent Chief Financial Officer to strengthen our internal staffing and technical expertise in financial accounting and reporting; · upgraded our accounting software system in the first quarter of 2011; · limited access to the accounting and information systems and related data to strengthen segregation of duties; and · implemented in the fourth quarter of 2010 procedures and controls in the financial statement close process to improve the accuracy and timeliness of the preparation of quarterly and annual financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our plans to remediate the material weaknesses in our financial reporting process. Our failure to successfully implement our plans to remediate these material weaknesses could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, to produce timely and reliable financial information, and to effectively prevent fraud. Additionally, such failure could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and stock price. Corporate and academic collaborators might take actions to delay, prevent, or undermine the success of our products. Our operating and financial strategy for the development, clinical testing, manufacture, and commercialization of drug candidates heavily depends on collaborating with corporations, academic institutions, licensors, licensees, and other parties. However, there can be no assurance that we will successfully establish these collaborations. In addition, should a collaboration be terminated, replacement collaborators might not be available on attractive terms, or at all. The activities of any collaborator will not be within our control and might not be within our power to influence. There can be no assurance that any collaborator will perform its obligations to our satisfaction or at all, that we will derive any revenue or profits from these collaborations, or that any collaborator will not compete with us. If any collaboration is not successful, we might require substantially greater capital to undertake development and marketing of our proposed products and might not be able to develop and market these products effectively, if at all. In addition, a lack of development and marketing collaborations might lead to significant delays in introducing proposed products into certain markets and/or reduced sales of proposed products in such markets. We rely on data provided by our collaborators and others that has not been independently verified and could prove to be false, misleading, or incomplete. We rely on third-party vendors, scientists, and collaborators to provide us with significant data and other information related to our projects, clinical trials, and our business. If these third parties provide inaccurate, misleading, or incomplete data, our business, prospects, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 37 We rely exclusively on third parties to formulate and manufacture our product candidates. We have no experience in drug formulation or manufacturing and do not intend to establish our own manufacturing facilities. We lack the resources and expertise to formulate or manufacture our own product candidates, which are currently being manufactured entirely by commercial third parties. If any product candidate we might develop or acquire in the future receives FDA approval, we will rely on one or more third-party contractors to manufacture our products. Our anticipated future reliance on a limited number of third-party manufacturers exposes us to the following risks: · We might be unable to identify manufacturers on acceptable terms or at all because the number of potential manufacturers is limited and the FDA must approve any replacement contractor. This approval would generally require new testing and compliance inspections. In addition, a new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes for, production of our products after receipt of FDA approval, if any. · Our third-party manufacturers might be unable to formulate and manufacture our drugs in the volume and of the quality required to meet our clinical and commercial needs, if any. · Our future contract manufacturers might not perform as agreed or might not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to supply our clinical trials or to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. · Drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with the FDA’s Current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. · If any third-party manufacturer makes improvements in the manufacturing process for our products, we might not own, or might have to share, the intellectual property rights to the innovation with our licensors. · We might compete with other companies for access to these manufacturers’ facilities and might be subject to manufacturing delays if the manufacturers give other clients higher priority than us. Each of these risks could delay our clinical trials or the approval, if any, of our product candidates by the FDA or the commercialization of our product candidates and could result in higher costs or deprive us of potential product revenues. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations might be materially harmed. If we or our collaborators are unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities or are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for the manufacturing facility, we might be unable to meet demand for our product, and we might lose potential revenues. We require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates in order to complete our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. We currently contract with an outside source to manufacture our compounds for our clinical needs. If, for any reason, we become unable to rely on our current source or any future source to manufacture our product candidates, either for clinical trials or, at some future date, for commercial quantities, then we would need to identify and contract with additional or replacement third-party manufacturers to manufacture compounds for preclinical, clinical and commercial purposes. We might not be successful in identifying additional or replacement third-party manufacturers, or in negotiating acceptable terms with any that we do identify. Such third-party manufacturers must receive FDA approval before they can produce clinical material or commercial product, and any that we identify might not receive such approval. If we are unable to secure and maintain third-party manufacturing capacity, the development and sales of our products and our financial performance might be materially affected. 38 Before we can begin to commercially manufacture our product candidates, we must obtain regulatory approval of the manufacturing facility and process. Manufacturing of drugs for clinical and commercial purposes must comply with cGMPs and applicable non-U.S. regulatory requirements. The cGMP requirements govern quality control and documentation policies and procedures. Complying with cGMP and non-U.S. regulatory requirements will require that we expend time, money, and effort in production, recordkeeping, and quality control to assure that the product meets applicable specifications and other requirements. We, or our contracted manufacturing facility, must also pass a pre-approval inspection prior to FDA approval. Failure to pass a pre-approval inspection might significantly delay FDA approval of our products. If we fail to comply with these requirements, we would be subject to possible regulatory action and might be limited in the jurisdictions in which we are permitted to sell our products. As a result, our business, financial condition, and results of operations might be materially harmed. Preclinical and clinical trials required for our product candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is uncertain. In order to obtain FDA approval to market a new drug product, we must demonstrate safety and effectiveness in humans. To meet these requirements, we must conduct extensive preclinical testing and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials. Conducting clinical trials is a lengthy, time consuming, and expensive process. The length of time might vary substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty, and intended use of the product candidate, and often can be several years or more per trial. Delays associated with products for which we are directly conducting preclinical or clinical trials might cause us to incur additional operating expenses. The commencement and rate of completion of clinical trials might be delayed by many factors, including, for example: · inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of qualified materials under cGMP for use in clinical trials; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment; · failure to recruit a sufficient number of patients; · modification of clinical trial protocols; · changes in regulatory requirements for clinical trials; · the lack of effectiveness during clinical trials; · the emergence of unforeseen safety issues; · delays, suspension, or termination of clinical trials by the institutional review board responsible for overseeing the study at a particular study site; and · government, institutional review board or other regulatory delays or clinical holds requiring suspension or termination of the trials. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of results obtained in later clinical trials. Accordingly, even if we obtain or have obtained positive results from preclinical or early clinical trials, we might not achieve the same success in future clinical trials. Clinical trials might not provide statistically significant data supporting a product candidate’s safety and effectiveness to meet the requisite regulatory approvals. The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate safety and effectiveness for the desired indications could harm the development of that product candidate and other product candidates. This failure could cause us to abandon a product candidate and could delay development of other product candidates. Any delay in, or termination of, our clinical trials would delay the filing of our NDAs with the FDA and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize our product candidates and generate product revenues. Any change in, or termination of, our clinical trials could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operation. 39 Existing and unforeseen safety issues could hinder the development of our product candidates and their adoption, if approved. Iferanserin (VEN 309), like numerous other drugs, is dependent on the CYP2D6 enzyme for its metabolism. An important property of CYP2D6 is that its activity is affected by genetic variability in individuals, including individuals who are CYP2D6 deficient and that its activity can be reduced by certain drugs. If this enzyme is inhibited by other medications being taken by a patient or the patient has a genetically reduced amount or a deficiency of the enzyme, and the patient takes iferanserin, the patient might have a higher level of iferanserin in his or her blood and might experience side effects although we are unaware of what the side effects might be. One patient in one of our Phase I studies had a genetic reduction of this enzyme and did experience substantially higher levels of iferanserin in his blood. However, no side effects were observed in this patient. There are several well known drugs that also are dependent on CYP2D6, including several antidepressants as well as tamoxifen. We might restrict the use of iferaserin in patients taking medications that inhibit or are dependent on the CYP2D6 enzyme, depending on the outcome of clinical drug-drug interaction clinical studies that we intend to undertake subsequent to the completion of the first Phase III clinical trial with this product. Iferanserin (VEN 309) has demonstrated arrythmogenic potential in in vitro (hERG channel) studies at exposures 60-100 times the dose expected in humans when using the 0.5% concentration applied topically twice daily. We expect to conduct an arrhythmia clinical study (“thorough QT study”) as part of our Phase III clinical pharmacology program, which studies are routinely required by the FDA. Even though VEN 309 has a wide safety margin in this area, we cannot be certain of the outcome of this study, and demonstration of clinically meaningful arrhythmia risks could compromise or prevent the approvability of the product in major markets. Both diltiazem and phenylephrine have been safely used extensively for decades when given orally at much higher exposures (blood levels) than currently under study in the topical application of VEN 307 and VEN 308. Despite these safety records, other safety issues could arise during testing of our products, which might delay testing or prevent further development entirely. If a product is approved, any limitation on use that might be necessary could hinder its adoption in the marketplace. In addition, if any product is approved, it could be used against any instructions that we publish that limit its use, which could subject us to litigation. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other drug companies, we might not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. If our product candidates receive FDA approval, they will compete with a number of existing and future drugs and therapies developed, manufactured and marketed by others. Existing or future competing drugs might provide greater therapeutic convenience or clinical or other benefits for a specific indication than our products, or might offer comparable performance at a lower cost. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we might not achieve sufficient product revenues and our business will suffer. We might compete against fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and smaller companies that are collaborating with larger pharmaceutical companies, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs or have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in: · developing drugs; · undertaking pre-clinical testing and human clinical trials; · obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of drugs; · formulating and manufacturing drugs; and · launching, marketing and selling drugs. We might not obtain the same resources and experience as our competitors. If we are unable to perform these tasks effectively and efficiently, our results of operations might be materially adversely affected. 40 Developments by competitors might render our products or technologies obsolete or non-competitive. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are intensely competitive. We might compete with organizations that are developing treatments for the indications that our products target. To our knowledge, there are currently no approved drugs for treatment of anal fissures, though ProStrakan Group plc is currently developing a topical nitroglycerin for such treatment. For the treatment of fecal incontinence, to our knowledge there are currently no products approved or in development although there are two non-drug products in development. For the treatment of hemorrhoids, some physicians are known to prescribe topical steroids, although such treatment has not been approved by the FDA for this indication. Further, many hemorrhoid sufferers use Wyeth’s Preparation H® or similar products for symptomatic relief (active ingredients can vary by country but generally include glycerin, phenylephrine HCl, pramoxine HCl, and white petrolatum). No data is publicly available regarding the clinical efficacy of this or other over-the-counter symptomatic treatments for hemorrhoids. Finally, there are surgical devices being studied for the treatment of hemorrhoids. If our competitors develop effective treatments for anal fissure, fecal incontinence or hemorrhoids and successfully commercialize those treatments, our business and prospects might be materially harmed. If we are not able to develop collaborative marketing relationships with licensees or partners, or create an effective internal sales, marketing, and distribution capability, we might be unable to market our products successfully. To market our products, we will have to establish our own marketing and sales force or out-license our product candidates to, or collaborate with, larger firms with experience in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully establish our own marketing capabilities or establish marketing, sales, or distribution relationships with third parties; that such relationships, if established, will be successful; or that we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for our products. To the extent that we enter into any marketing, sales, or distribution arrangements with third parties, our product revenues will be lower than if we marketed and sold our products directly, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of such third parties. If we are unable to establish such third-party sales and marketing relationships, or choose not to do so, we will have to establish our own in-house capabilities. We, as a company, have no experience in marketing or selling pharmaceutical products and currently have no sales, marketing, or distribution infrastructure. To market any of our products directly, we would need to develop a marketing, sales, and distribution force that both has technical expertise and the ability to support a distribution capability. To establish our own marketing, sales, and distribution capacity would significantly increase our costs, and require substantial additional capital. In addition, there is intense competition for proficient sales and marketing personnel, and we might not be able to attract individuals who have the qualifications necessary to market, sell, and distribute our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to establish internal marketing, sales, or distribution capabilities. Physicians and patients might not accept and use our drugs. Even if the FDA approves one of our product candidates, physicians and patients might not accept and use it. Acceptance and use of our products will depend upon a number of factors, including: · perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, about the safety and effectiveness of our product; · cost-effectiveness of our product relative to competing product or therapies; · availability of reimbursement for our product from government or other healthcare payors; and · effective marketing and distribution efforts by us and our licensees and distributors, if any. 41 If our current product candidates are approved, we expect sales to generate substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future, and as a result, the failure of these products to find market acceptance would harm our business and would require us to seek additional financing. Our ability to generate product revenues will be diminished if our products sell for inadequate prices or patients are unable to obtain adequate levels of reimbursement. Our ability to commercialize our products, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from: · government and health administration authorities; · private health maintenance organizations and health insurers; and · other healthcare payors. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Healthcare payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other healthcare payors increasingly attempt to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for drugs. Even if our product candidates are approved by the FDA, insurance coverage might not be available, and reimbursement levels might be inadequate, to cover our products. If government and other healthcare payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, once approved, market acceptance of such products could be reduced. Proposals to modify the current health care system in the United States to improve access to health care and control its costs are continually being considered by the federal and state governments. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress passed landmark healthcare legislation. We cannot predict what impact on federal reimbursement policies this legislation will have in general or on our business specifically. Members of the U.S. Congress and some state legislatures are seeking to overturn at least portions of the legislation and we expect they will continue to review and assess this legislation and possibly alternative health care reform proposals. We cannot predict whether new proposals will be made or adopted, when they may be adopted or what impact they may have on us if they are adopted. Health administration authorities in countries other than the United States may not provide reimbursement for our products at rates sufficient for us to achieve profitability, or at all. Like the United States, these countries have considered health care reform proposals and could materially alter their government-sponsored health care programs by reducing reimbursement rates. Any reduction in reimbursement rates under Medicare or foreign health care programs could negatively affect the pricing of our products. If we are not able to charge a sufficient amount for our products, then our margins and our profitability will be adversely affected. If we lose key management or scientific personnel, cannot recruit qualified employees, directors, officers, or other significant personnel or experience increases in our compensation costs, our business might materially suffer. We are highly dependent on the services of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Russell H. Ellison. The employment agreement with Dr. Ellison does not ensure the retention of Dr. Ellison. This is also true for our other management team members, both present and future. Furthermore, our future success also depends, in part, on our ability to identify, hire, and retain additional management team members as our operations glow. We expect to experience intense competition for qualified personnel and might be unable to attract and retain the personnel necessary for the development of our business. Finally, we do not currently maintain, nor do we intend to obtain in the future, “key man” life insurance that would compensate us in the event of the death or disability of any of the members of our management team. 42 If we cannot enforce non-compete and confidentiality provisions applicable to our employees and consultants, our business might materially suffer. We include a non-compete provision in any employment agreement we enter into with an employee including Dr. Ellison, that runs during the term of the agreement and for six months after termination. This non-compete provision was also included in employment agreements with our former chief executive officer, chief medical officer and chief scientific officer which have lapsed. We include a confidentiality provision in any employment or consulting agreement we enter into with an employee or a consultant. The confidentiality provision runs during the term of the agreement and thereafter without limit. As a result, the confidentiality provisions contained in the employment agreements with our former chief executive officer, chief medical officer and chief scientific officer remain in effect and are in effect under all of our current consulting agreements. All of our employees or consultants to date have been subject to an employment or a consulting agreement. For future employees with whom we do not enter into an employment agreement, we will enter into a confidentiality agreement with the same provisions described above. To be able to enforce these non-compete and confidentiality provisions we would need to know of any breach and have sufficient funds to enforce the provisions. We cannot assure you that we would know of or be able to afford enforcement of any breach. In addition, such provisions are subject to state law and interpretation by courts, which could limit the scope and duration of these provisions. Any limitation on or non-enforcement of these non-compete and confidentiality provisions could have an adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to grow our business might be harmed. At February 28, 2011, we had only five employees and three consultants to carry out our business plan. While we believe this will provide us with sufficient staffing to develop VEN 309 through the second quarter of 2012, we will need to hire or contract with additional qualified personnel with expertise in preclinical testing, clinical research and testing, government regulation, formulation and manufacturing and sales and marketing to commercialize VEN 309 and to develop VEN 307 and VEN 308. We compete for qualified individuals with numerous biopharmaceutical companies, universities and other research institutions. Competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot be certain that our search for such personnel will be successful. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel will be critical to our success. We might not successfully manage our growth. Our success will depend upon the expansion of our operations and the effective management of our growth, which will place a significant strain on our current and future management and other administrative and operational resources. To manage this growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire and train additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business would be harmed. 43 We might seek to develop our business through acquisitions of or investment in new or complementary businesses, products or technologies, and the failure to manage these acquisitions or investments, or the failure to integrate them with our existing business, could have a material adverse effect on us. We might consider opportunities to acquire or invest in other technologies, products and businesses that might enhance our capabilities or complement our current product candidates. Potential and completed acquisitions and strategic investments involve numerous risks, including potential problems or issues associated with the following: · assimilating the purchased technologies, products or business operations; · maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition or investment; · diversion of our management’s attention from our preexisting business; · maintaining or obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals or complying with regulatory standards; and · adverse effects on existing business operations. We have no current commitments with respect to any acquisition or investment. We do not know if we will identify suitable acquisitions, whether we will be able to successfully complete any acquisitions, or whether we will be able to successfully integrate any acquired product, technology or business into our business or retain key personnel, suppliers or collaborators. Our ability to successfully develop our business through acquisitions would depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable target businesses or technologies and obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could be expensive and time consuming and might disrupt our ongoing operations. If we are unable to integrate efficiently any acquired business, technology or product into our business, our business and financial condition might be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Regulatory and Legal Environment We are subject to extensive and costly government regulation. Product candidates employing our technology are subject to extensive and rigorous domestic government regulation including regulation by the FDA, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, other divisions of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the United States Department of Justice, state and local governments, and their respective foreign equivalents. The FDA regulates the research, development, preclinical and clinical testing, manufacture, safety, effectiveness, record-keeping, reporting, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale, distribution, import, and export of pharmaceutical products. The FDA regulates small molecule chemical entities, whether administered orally, topically or by injection, as drugs, subject to an NDA, under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. If products employing our technologies are marketed abroad, they will also be subject to extensive regulation by foreign governments, whether or not they have obtained FDA approval for a given product and its uses. Such foreign regulation might be equally or more demanding than corresponding United States regulation. Government regulation substantially increases the cost and risk of researching, developing, manufacturing, and selling our products. The regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical testing and clinical trials of each product candidate, is lengthy, expensive, and uncertain. We or our collaborators must obtain and maintain regulatory authorization to conduct clinical trials and approval for each product we intend to market, and the manufacturing facilities used for the products must be inspected and meet legal requirements. Securing regulatory approval requires submitting extensive preclinical and clinical data and other supporting information for each proposed therapeutic indication in order to establish the product’s safety and efficacy for each intended use. The development and approval process might take many years, requires substantial resources, and might never lead to the approval of a product. 44 Even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval for a particular product, the approval might limit the indicated medical uses for the product, limit our ability to promote, sell, and distribute the product, require that we conduct costly post-marketing surveillance, and/or require that we conduct ongoing post-marketing studies. Material changes to an approved product, such as, for example, manufacturing changes or revised labeling, might require further regulatory review and approval. Once obtained, any approvals might be withdrawn, including, for example, if there is a later discovery of previously unknown problems with the product, such as a previously unknown safety issue. If we, our collaborators, or our contract manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, such noncompliance could result in, among other things, delays in the approval of applications or supplements to approved applications; refusal of a regulatory authority, including the FDA, to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approved applications; warning letters; fines; import and export restrictions; product recalls or seizures; injunctions; total or partial suspension of production; civil penalties; withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications or licenses; recommendations by the FDA or other regulatory authorities against governmental contracts; and/or criminal prosecutions. We might not obtain the necessary U.S. or worldwide regulatory approvals to commercialize any product candidate. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize for sale any of our product candidates, or any product candidate we acquire or develop in the future. We will need FDA approval to commercialize our product candidates in the U.S. and approvals from the FDA-equivalent regulatory authorities in foreign jurisdictions to commercialize our product candidates in those jurisdictions. In order to obtain FDA approval of any product candidate, we must submit to the FDA an NDA demonstrating that the product candidate is safe for humans and effective for its intended use. This demonstration requires significant research, pre-clinical studies, and clinical trials. Satisfaction of the FDA’s regulatory requirements typically takes many years, depends upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate and requires substantial resources for research, development and testing. We cannot predict whether our research and clinical approaches will result in drugs that the FDA considers safe for humans and effective for their indicated uses. The FDA has substantial discretion in the drug approval process and might require us to conduct additional pre-clinical and clinical testing, perform post-marketing studies, or otherwise limit or impose conditions on any approval we obtain. The approval process might also be delayed by changes in government regulation, future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA policy that occur prior to or during our regulatory review. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals might: · delay commercialization of, and our ability to derive product revenues from, our product candidates; · impose costly procedures on us; and · diminish any competitive advantages that we might otherwise enjoy. Even if we comply with all FDA requests, the FDA might ultimately reject one or more of our NDAs. We cannot be sure that we will ever obtain regulatory clearance for our product candidates. Failure to obtain FDA approval of our product candidates will severely undermine our business by leaving us without a saleable product, and therefore without any source of revenues, until another product candidate can be developed or obtained. There is no guarantee that we will ever be able to develop or acquire another product candidate. 45 In foreign jurisdictions, we must receive approval from the appropriate regulatory authorities before we can commercialize any drugs. The risks associated with foreign regulatory approval processes are similar to the risks associated with the FDA approval procedures described above. We cannot assure you that we will receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates for sale outside the U.S. Even if approved, our products will be subject to extensive post-approval regulation. Once a product is approved, numerous post-approval requirements apply. Among other things, the holder of an approved NDA is subject to periodic and other FDA monitoring and reporting obligations, including obligations to monitor and report adverse events and instances of the failure of a product to meet the specifications in the NDA. Application holders must submit new or supplemental applications and obtain FDA approval for changes to the approved product, product labeling, or manufacturing process. Application holders also must submit advertising and other promotional material to the FDA and report on ongoing clinical trials. The FDA also has the authority to require changes in the labeling of approved drug products and to require post-marketing studies. Advertising and promotional materials must comply with FDA rules in addition to other applicable federal and state laws. The distribution of product samples to physicians must comply with the requirements of the Prescription Drug Marketing Act. Manufacturing facilities remain subject to FDA inspection and must continue to adhere to the FDA’s cGMP requirements. Application holders must obtain FDA approval for product, manufacturing, and labeling changes, depending on the nature of the change. Sales, marketing, and scientific/educational grant programs must comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act, the False Claims Act, and similar state laws, each as amended. Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and the Veteran’s Health Care Act of 1992, each as amended. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. All of these activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet these post-approval requirements can result in criminal prosecution, fines, injunctions, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, denial or withdrawal of pre-marketing product approvals, or refusal to allow us to enter into supply contracts, including government contracts. In addition, even if we comply with FDA and other requirements, new information regarding the safety or effectiveness of a product could lead the FDA to modify or withdraw product approval. We face the risk of product liability claims and might not be able to obtain insurance. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the development of drugs. If the use of one or more of our or our collaborators’ drugs harms people, we might be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims brought against us by clinical trial participants, consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. Our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop. We currently do not carry clinical trial insurance or product liability insurance. We intend to obtain such insurance in the future. We cannot predict all of the possible harms or side effects that might result and, therefore, the amount of insurance coverage we hold now or in the future might not be adequate to cover all liabilities we might incur. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our drug candidates in development, but we might be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. If we are unable to obtain insurance at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which might materially and adversely affect our business and financial position. If we are sued for any injury allegedly caused by our or our collaborators’ products, our liability could exceed our total assets and our ability to pay the liability. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us would decrease our cash and could cause the value of our common stock to decrease. 46 We might be exposed to liability claims associated with the use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Our research, development and manufacturing activities and/or those of our third-party contractors might involve the controlled use of hazardous materials and chemicals. Although we will strive to have our safety procedures for using, storing, handling and disposing of these materials comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials. In the event of such an accident, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous or radioactive materials and waste products might require us to incur substantial compliance costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently do not carry hazardous materials liability insurance. We intend to obtain such insurance in the future. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our license agreement with S.L.A. Pharma is subject to termination if a third party wishes to license VEN 307 and VEN 308 in certain events. We have in-licensed the rights to VEN 307 and VEN 308 from S.L.A. Pharma. S.L.A. Pharma may terminate the license agreement at any time with one month’s notice in the event that a third party wishes to enter into a license agreement for VEN 307 and VEN 308 and has entered into an agreement to that effect, provided that the termination will not be effective if within that one-month period we pay all then required development payments related to VEN 307 under the agreement, which could total an aggregate of $1.4 million depending on when this event occurs. If the license agreement were terminated, our business would be materially harmed. A patent has not been issued for VEN 307 and might never be issued. No patent has been issued for VEN 307. S.L.A. Pharma has a pending application in the United States that includes claims that cover topical treatment for the relief of pain associated with anal fissures. This patent has not yet issued for reasons related to the U.S Patent and Trademark Office, or PTO, examiner’s concerns about novelty and lack of inventiveness over prior art. S.L.A. Pharma filed an appeal of the examiner’s findings to the PTO Board of Appeal. The appeal of US Patent Application No. 09/355,928 was addressed on August 31, 2010 wherein the Appeal Board affirmed the novelty of the topical use of diltiazem while maintaining the lack of inventive step rejection over the prior art, with the proviso that additional data were necessary to show unexpected results. As a result, on October 25, 2010, S.L.A. Pharma filed a Request for Continued Examination, or RCE, with the PTO to continue prosecution of the pending application and to provide the additional data requested by the Appeal Board. S.L.A. Pharma also introduced additional arguments to the PTO to address recent legal decisions by the U.S. Federal Circuit Courts, relevant to the inventive step for the topical use of diltiazem, which decisions have not been previously considered by the PTO examiner. We expect the first PTO action to be made within 12 months. However these additional arguments may not be persuasive and the patent may never issue, or, if issued, may be invalidated. If the patent does not issue, we will not have the exclusive rights to the intellectual property behind VEN 307, although we will have market exclusivity in the U.S. for three years after FDA approval, if granted. After that, competitors would be able to use and sell the technology without having to pay us to do so, which would greatly diminish the value of the technology to us. In such event, our business will be materially harmed. 47 Our business depends on protecting our intellectual property. If we and our licensors do not obtain protection for our respective intellectual property rights, our competitors might be able to take advantage of our research and development efforts to develop competing drugs. Our success, competitive position and future revenues, if any, depend in part on our ability and the abilities of our licensors to obtain and maintain patent protection for our products, methods, processes and other technologies, to preserve our trade secrets, to prevent third parties from infringing on our proprietary rights and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. To date, we hold some exclusive patent rights, including rights under U.S. patents and patent applications as well as rights under foreign patents and patent applications. We anticipate filing additional patent applications both in the U.S. and in other countries, as appropriate. However, the patent process is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in protecting our products by obtaining and defending patents. These risks and uncertainties include the following: · Our patent rights might be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or otherwise might not provide any competitive advantage; · Our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources than we do and many of which might make significant investments in competing technologies, might seek, or might already have obtained, patents that will limit, interfere with, or eliminate our ability to make, use, and sell our potential products either in the United States or in international markets; · As a matter of public policy regarding worldwide health concerns, there might be significant pressure on the U.S. government and other international governmental bodies to limit the scope of patent protection both inside and outside the U.S. for disease treatments that prove successful; and · Countries other than the U.S. might have less restrictive patent laws than those upheld by U.S. courts, allowing foreign competitors the ability to exploit these laws to create, develop, and market competing products. In addition, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and patent offices in other jurisdictions have often required that patent applications concerning pharmaceutical and/or biotechnology-related inventions be limited or narrowed substantially to cover only the specific innovations exemplified in the patent application, thereby limiting the scope of protection against competitive challenges. Thus, even if we or our licensors are able to obtain patents, the patents might be substantially narrower than anticipated. In addition to patents, we also rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how. Although we take measures to protect this information by entering into confidentiality and inventions agreements with our employees, scientific advisors, consultants, and collaborators, we cannot provide any assurances that these agreements will not be breached, that we will be able to protect ourselves from the harmful effects of disclosure if they are breached, or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by competitors. If any of these events occurs, or we otherwise lose protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, the value of this information may be greatly reduced. Patent and other intellectual property protection is crucial to the success of our business and prospects, and there is a substantial risk that such protections will prove inadequate. Our business and prospects will be harmed if these protections prove insufficient. 48 We rely on trade secret protections through confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers and other parties, and the breach of these agreements could adversely affect our business and prospects. We rely on trade secrets, which we seek to protect, in part, through confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our employees, collaborators, supplies, and other parties. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we would have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. We might be involved from time to time in litigation to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights. Any such litigation could result in substantial cost and divert management’s attention from our operations. If we infringe the rights of third parties we might have to forgo selling our future products, pay damages, or defend against litigation. If our product candidates, methods, processes and other technologies infringe the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we might have to: · obtain licenses, which might not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · abandon an infringing product candidate; · redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement; · stop using the subject matter claimed in the patents held by others; · pay damages; and/or · defend litigation or administrative proceedings which might be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our financial and management resources. Any of these events could substantially harm our earnings, financial condition and operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock There are interlocking relationships among us and certain affiliates of Paramount BioSciences, LLC, which might present potential conflicts of interest. Dr. Lindsay Rosenwald is the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and sole stockholder of Paramount BioCapital, Inc., or Paramount, and is the sole member of Paramount BioSciences, LLC. We acquired the rights to VEN 307 and VEN 308 from Paramount BioSciences who had licensed them from S.L.A. Pharma. Dr. Rosenwald individually and through entities he controls and trusts established for his family beneficially owned as of February 28, 2011 approximately 13% of our issued and outstanding common stock, excluding any shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants. Dr. Rosenwald’s beneficial ownership includes shares issued upon the automatic conversion of promissory notes held by affiliates of Paramount BioSciences and Capretti Grandi, LLC and shares issuable upon the conversion of warrants held by affiliates of Paramount Credit Partners, LLC. Moreover, Dr. Rosenwald has the right to purchase additional shares of our common stock pursuant to purchase right agreements with certain employees of Paramount BioSciences or its affiliates. All share amounts and ownership percentages give effect to the 1-for-12.4 reverse stock split that we effected on November 10, 2010. In consideration of his guaranteeing the $800,000 promissory note we issued to Israel Discount Bank of New York in September 2010, we entered into a letter agreement with Dr. Rosenwald whereby Dr. Rosenwald has the right to attend our Board meetings and to appoint two directors to our Board. Dr. Rosenwald has not exercised his right to appoint those directors. If and when appointed, these directors would be subject to stockholder approval at the expiration of their terms. This board representation, coupled with his beneficial ownership of approximately 13% of the common stock of our company, increases Dr. Rosenwald’s ability to influence our board of directors and the management of our company. Dr. Rosenwald’s rights will terminate upon the earlier to occur of (a) August 30, 2015, (b) the merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our stock or assets in a transaction or series of transactions immediately after which our stockholders as of immediately prior to the transaction hold less than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving, acquiring or parent corporation, or (c) Dr. Rosenwald’s ownership of our company is less than 5.0% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. 49 At December 31, 2010, we had borrowed from Paramount Credit Partners, an entity whose managing member is Dr. Rosenwald, an aggregate principal amount of $1,573,000. As of December 31, 2010, we owe Paramount Corporate Development, LLC, an affiliate of Dr. Rosenwald’s, $100,000 for services previously rendered and for which there is no due date. Generally, Delaware corporate law, under which we are governed, requires that any transactions between us and any of our affiliates be on terms that, when taken as a whole, are substantially as favorable to us as those then reasonably obtainable from a person who is not an affiliate in an arms-length transaction. We believe that the terms of our relationships with Paramount BioSciences and its affiliates satisfy the requirement of Delaware law, but in the event that one or more parties challenges the fairness of such terms, we might have to expend substantial resources in resolving the challenge, and we can make no guarantees as to the result. None of our affiliates, Paramount BioSciences, its affiliates or Dr. Rosenwald is obligated pursuant to any agreement or understanding with us to make any additional products or technologies available to us, nor can there be any assurance, and we do not expect and purchasers of our common stock should not expect, that any biomedical or pharmaceutical product or technology identified by such affiliates, Paramount BioSciences, its affiliates or Dr. Rosenwald in the future will be made available to us. In addition, certain of our current officers and directors or certain of any officers or directors hereafter appointed or elected might from time to time serve as officers or directors of other biopharmaceutical or biotechnology companies. There can be no assurance that such other companies will not have interests in conflict with our own. We are controlled by our current officers, directors and principal stockholders. As of February 28, 2011, our directors, officers, principal stockholders and their affiliates beneficially owned approximately 13.5% of our issued and outstanding capital stock, excluding any shares issuable upon the exercise of options or warrants. Accordingly, our officers, directors, principal stockholders and their affiliates control the election of our Board of Directors and the outcome of issues submitted to our stockholders, including any merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders and their affiliates might not coincide with the interests of other holders of our capital stock. This concentration of ownership may harm the value of our common stock by, among other things: · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company; · impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our company; or · causing us to enter into transaction or agreements that are not in the best interests of all stockholders. As of February 28, 2011, Dr. Lindsay Rosenwald, our largest stockholder and the sole member of Paramount BioSciences LLC, beneficially owned approximately 13% of our issued and outstanding capital stock, excluding any shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants. In consideration of his guaranteeing the $800,000 promissory note we issued to Israel Discount Bank of New York in September 2010, we entered into a letter agreement with Dr. Rosenwald whereby Dr. Rosenwald has the right to attend our Board meetings and to appoint two directors to our Board. Dr. Rosenwald has not exercised his right to appoint a director. If and when appointed, these directors would be subject to stockholder approval at the expiration of their terms. This board representation, coupled with his beneficial ownership of approximately 13% of the common stock of our company, increases Dr. Rosenwald’s ability to influence our board of directors and the management of our company. 50 All share amounts and ownership percentages give effect to the 1-for-12.4 reverse stock split that we effected on November 10, 2010. We might not be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “VTUS.” We might not be able to maintain the listing standards of that exchange. If we fail to maintain the listing requirements, our common stock might trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “pink sheets” maintained by Pink OTC Markets, Inc. These alternative markets are generally considered to be markets that are less efficient and less broad than the Nasdaq Capital Market. The price of our common stock might fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our common stock might be volatile and subject to wide price fluctuations in response to various factors, including: · success or failure of our product candidates; · results of our clinical trials and other studies; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly financial and operating results; · the overall performance of the equity markets; · changes in interest rates; · introduction of new products or announcements of significant contracts, acquisitions or capital commitments by us or our competitors; · legislative, political or regulatory developments; · issuance of new or changed securities analysts’ reports or recommendations, or the announcement of any changes to our credit rating; · additions or departures of key personnel; · availability of capital; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; · threatened or actual litigation and government investigations; · future sales of our common stock; · investor perceptions of us and the pharmaceutical industry; · sale of shares of our common stock by our significant stockholders or members of our management; and · general economic conditions. These and other factors might cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which might limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of our common stock and might otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In addition, in recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies across many industries. The changes frequently appear to occur without regard to the operating performance of the affected companies. Accordingly, the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our share price. 51 We will need additional financing to fund our activities in the future, which likely will dilute our stockholders. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. Moreover, we believe we will require substantial funds in the future to support our operations. We expect to seek equity or debt financings in the future to fund our operations. The issuance of additional equity securities, or convertible debt or other derivative securities, likely will dilute some if not all of our then existing stockholders, depending on the financing terms. The requirements of being a public company adds to our operating costs and might strain our resources and distract our management. As a public company, we face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses not faced by private companies. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition, and the rules and regulations implemented by the SEC, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the Nasdaq Capital Market, each of which imposes additional reporting and other obligations on public companies. These rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly, although we are currently unable to estimate these costs with any degree of certainty. Complying with these requirements might divert management’s attention from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, and financial condition. Additionally, the expenses incurred by public companies generally for reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. These increased costs will require us to divert a significant amount of money that we could otherwise use to develop our product candidates or otherwise expand our business. If we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our common stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. Our internal control over financial reporting currently has material weaknesses, and failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we will have to maintain internal control over financial reporting in a manner that meets the standards of publicly traded companies. We anticipate being required to meet these standards in the course of preparing our financial statements as of and for the year ending December 31, 2011, and our management will be required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. The rules governing the standards that must be met for our management to assess our internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation. We are in the process of reviewing, documenting and testing our internal control over financial reporting. We might encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial information and the price of our common stock could decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and our stock may not appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in shares of our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that shares of our common stock will appreciate in value or that the price at which our stockholders have purchased their shares will be able to be maintained. 52 Shares currently eligible for sale and shares that will become eligible for sale in the near future may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future market sale of a substantial amount of outstanding stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. Holders of a significant number of our shares and/or their designees are eligible to sell our shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market without any restrictions, such as limitation imposed by Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act. In addition, lock-up agreements that our executive officers and directors and certain of our stockholders entered into in connection with our initial public offering will expire 180 days after December 22, 2010, which will allow those shares to be sold. Any substantial sale of common stock, whether individually or in the aggregate, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Several provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, and the market price of our common stock could be reduced as a result. These provisions include: · “blank check” preferred stock; · prohibiting us from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder unless certain provisions are met; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 53 