Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial performance is subject to various risks and uncertainties. The risks described below are those which we believe are the material risks we face. Any of the risk factors described below could significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, sales, revenues, gross profit, cash flows, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our debt agreements. We are highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2012, Holdings’ total consolidated indebtedness was $1.581 billion, which includes Guitar Center’s debt of $1.017 billion. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including the following: · it will limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; · our interest expense would increase if interest rates in general increase because a substantial portion of our indebtedness, including all of our indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities, bears interest at floating rates; · it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities; · we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage; · it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business, our industry or the economy in general; · a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our and Holdings’ indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, and will not be available for other purposes; and · there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our (or Holdings’) indebtedness or obtain additional financing as needed. 12 Table of Contents Despite our substantial indebtedness, we may still incur significantly more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes will not fully prohibit us from doing so. Under the indentures governing the notes, in addition to specified permitted indebtedness, we will be able to incur additional indebtedness so long as on a pro forma basis the fixed charge coverage ratio of Guitar Center, Inc. (as defined in the indentures) is at least 2.0 to 1.0. In addition, if we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of us. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ current debt levels, the related risks that we and they now face could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our (or Holdings’) ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our (or Holdings’) debt obligations depends on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot provide any assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our and Holdings’ indebtedness. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations—Liquidity and capital resources.” If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our and Holdings’ debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our and Holdings’ indebtedness. We cannot provide any assurance that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our and Holdings’ scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our and Holdings’ existing or future debt agreements. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our and Holdings’ debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures that govern the notes will restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our and Holdings’ debt, we will be in default and, as a result: · our and Holdings’ debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; · the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could terminate their commitments to lend us money and foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings; and · we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Restrictive covenants in our credit agreements and the indentures governing the notes will restrict our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies. The credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes contain, and any future indebtedness we incur may contain, various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: · incur or guarantee additional debt; · incur debt that is junior to senior indebtedness and senior to the senior PIK notes; · pay dividends or make distributions to our stockholders; · repurchase or redeem capital stock or subordinated indebtedness; · make loans, capital expenditures or investments or acquisitions; · incur restrictions on the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or to make other payments to us; · enter into transactions with affiliates; 13 Table of Contents · create liens; · merge or consolidate with other companies or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; · transfer or sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; and · prepay, redeem or repurchase debt that is junior in right of payment to the notes. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business, and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our senior secured credit facilities also require Holdings to comply with financial covenants, including covenants with respect to, in the case of our term loan facility, a maximum consolidated senior secured net leverage ratio and, in the case of our asset-based revolving credit facility, so long as the excess availability thereunder falls below certain thresholds, a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our senior secured credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit facilities, the lenders: · will not be required to lend any additional amounts to us; · could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, which would result in an event of default under the notes; · could require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings; or · could prevent us from making payments on the senior PIK notes, which could result in an event of default under the notes. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We, the co-borrowers and the guarantors in respect of such facilities pledged a significant portion of our respective assets as collateral under our senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we cannot assure you that Holdings or we will have sufficient assets to repay our senior secured credit facilities and our other indebtedness, including the notes, or borrow sufficient funds to refinance such indebtedness. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income would decrease. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $621.8 million of variable rate debt (not including approximately $286.8 million of additional undrawn availability under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, after giving effect to $8.6 million of outstanding letters of credit). A 1.0% increase in the interest rate on our floating rate debt would have increased annual interest expense under our senior secured credit facilities by approximately $6.2 million. We do not hedge our interest rate risk by use of derivative instruments and we may in the future be unable to do so. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the credit agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities or our other debt agreements, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. Our credit agreements require Holdings to maintain specified financial ratios, including, in the case of the term loan facility, a maximum ratio of consolidated senior secured net indebtedness to EBITDA and, in the case of the asset-based revolving credit facility, so long as the excess availability thereunder falls below certain thresholds, a minimum consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio. In addition, our credit agreement and the indentures governing the notes require us to comply with various operational and other covenants. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately, which in turn would result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. 14 Table of Contents If, when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, our credit agreements, or if a default otherwise occurs, the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans, declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable, institute foreclosure proceedings against those assets that secure the borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities and prevent us from making payments on the notes. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation, and we cannot provide any assurance that we could repay our obligations under the notes in such an event. We may not be able to purchase the notes upon a change of control, which would result in a default under the indentures governing the notes and would adversely affect our business and financial condition. Upon the incurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we must offer to purchase the notes. We may not have sufficient funds available to make any required repurchases of the notes, and restrictions under our credit agreement may not allow that repurchase. If we fail to repurchase notes in that circumstance, we will be in default under the indentures governing the notes and, in turn, under our credit agreement. In addition, certain change of control events will constitute an event of default under our credit agreements. A default under our credit agreements would result in an event of default under the indentures governing the notes if the administrative agent or the lenders accelerate our debt under our senior secured credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of a change of control, we could seek to refinance the indebtedness under our senior secured credit facilities and the notes or obtain a waiver from the lenders or the noteholders. We cannot provide any assurance, however, that we would be able to obtain a waiver or refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Any future debt that we incur may also contain restrictions on repayment of the notes upon a change of control. Risks Related to Our Business Economic conditions or changing consumer preferences could adversely impact us. Our business is sensitive to consumer spending patterns, which can be affected by prevailing economic conditions. The United States economy generally, and the music products industry in particular, continues to experience an economic slowdown. We cannot predict with accuracy the duration or extent of the slowdown. This downturn in general economic conditions has had an adverse effect on our results of operations over the last several years. We believe that the sensitivity of our operations to general economic conditions and consumer spending patterns has increased as new types of competitors have entered the market and we have expanded our customer base to a greater number of hobbyists and semi-professional musicians and have expanded our footprint to smaller markets. Although we attempt to stay informed of consumer preferences for musical products and accessories typically offered for sale in our stores, any sustained failure on our part to identify and respond to trends would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Significant existing and new competition in our industry could adversely affect us. The retail musical instrument industry is highly competitive and fragmented. Our stores compete against other large and small musical instrument retailers, online music retailers, online auctions, direct-to-consumer alternatives and a number of large mass merchants. These competitors sell many or most of the items we sell and may have greater financial or operational resources than us. Large online companies such as Amazon and eBay increasingly have expanded their offerings of musical instruments and related products. These companies have significant brand recognition and financial and operational resources dedicated to online direct and marketplace operations. In addition, our retail stores and online operations compete with other direct response musical instrument companies such as American Musical Supply, Sweetwater Sound and Full Compass. In addition, our online and other direct response operations may require greater efficiency, lower prices, expanded advertising requirements through search engines and other parties and other competitive factors such as free shipping or extended warranties or return periods in order to compete successfully. Each of these factors could have an adverse effect on selling prices and margins in our business and generally constrain our profitability. 15 Table of Contents A number of large mass merchants, including Wal-Mart, Best Buy, Target and Costco, sell music products in categories in which we compete. These retailers represent a significant source of competition for our retail and direct response operations. We are in direct competition with numerous small local and regional musical instrument retailers as well as large national retailers such as Sam Ash Music based in New York, New York. Sam Ash has continued to open and maintain stores in markets in which we are located. If we are not able to compete effectively with these competitors, we may fail to achieve market position gains or may lose market share. As summarized above, competition within the musical instrument industry remains dynamic, and we cannot predict the scope and extent of national and local competition our retail store and direct response operations will face in the future. In particular, competition within the online portion of our businesses has been increasing and is intense, and we expect that this competition will continue in the future. If we are unable to respond effectively to existing and new competition in our industry, our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects could suffer. Our failure to develop and implement critical new technology systems for our business could adversely impact our business. We have developed and implemented new technology systems, including a new e-commerce platform, a multi-channel retail system and a new human resources information system. We also plan to continue investing in technology improvements to our e-commerce platforms and retail systems. If these systems fail to perform as planned, it could lead to the distraction of our management and the need to expend significant additional capital resources. Such a failure could reduce the shopping experience of customers compared to our competitors and impact the data available to our management necessary to run our business efficiently, and as a result could adversely impact our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We may not be able to grow sales in our existing Guitar Center stores. Our quarterly comparable stores sales results have fluctuated significantly in the past, and in particular during the current economic slowdown. We do not know whether our new stores or recently opened stores will achieve sales or profitability levels similar to our mature stores. In addition, a variety of factors affect our comparable store sales results, including: · competition; · economic conditions, including in particular discretionary consumer spending; · consumer and music trends; · changes in our merchandise mix; · product distribution; and · timing and effectiveness of our promotional events. A shortfall in comparative store sales growth could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. We may be unable to meet our retail store growth strategy, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our retail store growth strategy includes increasing sales at existing Guitar Center and Music & Arts locations and opening new locations. The success of any new Guitar Center or Music & Arts stores will depend on many factors, including: · identification of suitable retail sites and appropriate acquisition candidates; · negotiation of acceptable lease terms; · hiring, training and retention of skilled personnel; · availability of adequate capital; 16 Table of Contents · sufficient management and financial resources to support the new locations; · vendor support; and · successful integration of newly-acquired businesses. A number of these factors are to a significant extent beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our retail growth strategy, or if new stores do not perform to our level of expectations, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to address unique competitive and merchandising challenges in connection with our plans to open additional Guitar Center and Music & Arts retail stores in new markets. Part of our retail growth strategy includes plans to open and/or acquire additional Guitar Center and Music & Arts stores in new markets. This expansion into new markets will present unique competitive and merchandising challenges, including: · significant start-up costs, including promotion and advertising; · the increasing difficulty in identifying large untapped markets and the consequent expansion into smaller markets that may have different competitive landscapes and customer profiles; · higher advertising and other administrative costs as a percentage of sales than is experienced in mature markets that are served by multiple stores, particularly in large urban markets where radio and other media costs are high; · the availability of desirable product lines; · the potential acquisitions of business lines or geographies in which we have limited or no experience; and · the management of stores in distant locations or possibly foreign countries. Any of these factors may lead to a shortfall in revenues or an increase in costs with respect to the operation of these stores. If we are not able to operate these stores profitably, or to our expected level of performance, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on a relatively small number of manufacturers, suppliers and common carriers, and their inability or unwillingness to adequately supply our requirements could adversely impact our business. Brand recognition is of particular importance in the retail music products business. There are a relatively small number of high quality, recognized brand names in the music products business. We depend on this relatively small number of manufacturers and suppliers for both our existing retail stores and our direct response business. We do not have any long-term contracts with our suppliers and any failure to maintain our relationships with our key brand name vendors would have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of the manufacturers of the products we sell are limited in size and manufacturing capacity and have significant capital or other constraints. These manufacturers may not be able or willing to meet our increasing requirements for inventory, and there may not be sufficient quantities or the appropriate mix of products available in the future to supply our existing and future stores. These capacity constraints could lead to extended lead times and shortages of desirable products. The risk is especially prevalent in new markets where our vendors have existing agreements with other dealers and may be unwilling or unable for contractual or other reasons to meet our requirements. The efficient operation of our distribution center for Guitar Center stores is also highly dependent upon compliance by our vendors with precise requirements as to the timing, format and composition of shipments. Additionally, many of our vendors receive products from overseas and depend on an extensive supply chain including common carriers and port access to transport merchandise into the country. Foreign manufacturing is subject to a number of risks, including political and economic disruptions, the imposition of tariffs, quotas and other import or export controls and changes in governmental policies. 17 Table of Contents We rely on common carriers, including rail and trucking, to transport products from our vendors to our central distribution centers and from these centers to either our stores or customers. A disruption in the services of common carriers due to weather, employee strikes or other unforeseen events could impact our ability to maintain sufficient quantities of inventory in our retail locations or to fulfill orders by direct response customers. Our hardware and software systems are vital to the efficient operation of our retail stores and direct response business, and damage to these systems could harm our business. We rely on our computer hardware and software systems for the efficient operation of our retail stores and our direct response business. Our e-commerce systems are responsible for online product sales, customer service and product marketing to our customers and prospective customers. In addition, our information systems provide our management with inventory, sales and cost information that is essential to the operation of our business. Due to our number of stores, geographic diversity and other factors, we would be unable to generate this information in a timely and accurate manner in the event our hardware or software systems were unavailable. These systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from a number of factors, including earthquake, fire, flood and other natural disasters and power loss, computer systems failure, or security breaches, internet and telecommunications or data network failure. In addition, a significant information systems failure could reduce the quality or quantity of operating data available to our management. If this information were unavailable for any extended period of time, our management would be unable to efficiently run our business, which would result in a reduction in our net sales and operating results. We may be adversely impacted if our security measures fail. Our relationships with our customers may be adversely affected if the security measures that we use to protect their personal information, such as credit card numbers, are ineffective or perceived by consumers to be inadequate. We primarily rely on security and authentication technology that we license from other parties. With this technology, we perform real-time credit card authorization and verification with our banks and we are subject to the customer privacy standards of credit card companies and various consumer protection laws. We cannot predict whether there will be a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect our customers’ personal information. If there is a compromise or breach of this nature, there is the potential that parties could seek damages from us, we could lose the confidence of customers or be subject to significant fines from credit card companies or regulatory agencies. Furthermore, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. We may need to expend significant additional capital and other resources to protect against a security breach or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We need to comply with credit and debit card security regulations. As a merchant who processes credit and debit card payments from customers, we are required to comply with the Payment Card Industry data security requirements imposed on us for the protection and security of our customers’ credit and debit card information. If we are unable to remain compliant with these requirements, our business could be harmed because we could incur significant fines from payment card companies or we could be prevented in the future from accepting customer payments by means of a credit or debit card. We also may need to expend significant management and financial resources to become or remain compliant with these requirements, which could divert these resources from other initiatives and adversely impact our financial results. Our reliance on foreign manufacturers and suppliers increases our risk of obtaining adequate, timely and cost-effective product supplies. We rely to a significant extent on foreign manufacturers of various products that we sell, particularly manufacturers located in China. In addition, many of our domestic suppliers purchase a significant portion of their products from foreign sources. This reliance increases the risk that we will not have adequate and timely supplies of various products due to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or the occurrence of natural disaster), transportation delays (including dock strikes and other work stoppages), restrictive actions by foreign governments, or changes in United States laws and regulations affecting imports or domestic distribution. Reliance on foreign manufacturers also increases our exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates and trade infringement claims and reduces our ability to return product for various reasons. 18 Table of Contents Additionally, the cost of labor and wage taxes have increased in China, which means we are at risk of higher costs associated with goods manufactured in China. Significant increases in wages or wage taxes paid by contract facilities may increase the cost of goods manufactured in China, which could have a material adverse effect on our profit margins and profitability. All of our products manufactured overseas and imported into the United States are subject to duties collected by the United States Customs Service. We may be subjected to additional duties, significant monetary penalties, the seizure and forfeiture of the products we are attempting to import or the loss of import privileges if we or our suppliers are found to be in violation of United States laws and regulations applicable to the importation of our products. Product recalls and/or product liability, as well as changes in product safety and other consumer protection laws, may adversely impact our operations, product offerings, reputation, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Products that we develop or sell may expose us to liability from claims by users of those products for damages, including bodily injury or property damage. This risk is expected to increase as we increase the number and complexity of the proprietary products that we offer. Many of these products are manufactured by small companies located overseas. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts that we believe are adequate. However, we may not carry or be able to maintain adequate coverage or obtain additional coverage on acceptable terms in the future. Liability from claims of users of our products could result in damage to our reputation and sales, and our failure to maintain adequate products liability insurance could adversely impact our financial condition. In addition, we are subject to regulations by a variety of federal, state and international regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. We purchase products from hundreds of vendors. Since a majority of our merchandise is manufactured in foreign countries, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to product safety requirements or our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our stores. Any issues of product safety, including those manufactured in foreign countries, could cause us to recall some of those products. If the recall affects our proprietary products, or if our vendors are unable or unwilling to recall products failing to meet our quality standards, we may be required to recall those products at a substantial cost to us. These recalls may adversely impact our reputation and brands, potentially leading to increases in customer litigation against us. Further, to the extent we are unable to replace any recalled products, we may have to reduce our merchandise offerings, resulting in a decrease in sales, especially if the unavailability occurs near or during a seasonal period. Moreover, changes in product safety or other consumer protection laws could lead to increased costs to us for merchandise, or additional labor costs associated with readying merchandise for sale. Long lead times on merchandise ordering cycles increase the difficulty for us to plan and prepare for potential changes to applicable laws. The Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act of 2008 imposes significant requirements on manufacturing, importing, testing and labeling requirements for our products. In addition, various federal and state regulations directly impact our products, such as the Lacey Act, the Formaldehyde Air Toxic Control Measure issued by the California Air Resources Board and the California Transparency in Supply Chains Act. In the event that we are unable to timely comply with regulatory changes, significant fines or penalties could result, and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents We have outsourced some of our information technology functions, which makes us more dependent upon third parties. We place significant reliance on a third party provider for the outsourcing of a variety of our information technology functions. These functions are generally performed at an offshore location, with our oversight. As a result, we are relying on third parties to ensure that these functional needs are sufficiently met. This reliance subjects us to risks arising from the loss of control over these processes, changes in pricing that may affect our operating results and potentially the termination of provision of these services by our supplier. If our service providers fail to perform, we may have difficulty arranging for an alternate supplier or rebuilding our own internal resources, and we could incur significant costs, all of which may have a significant adverse effect on our business. We may outsource other administrative functions in the future, which would further increase our reliance on third parties. Further, the use of offshore service providers may expose us to risks related to local political, economic, social or environmental conditions (including acts of terrorism, the outbreak of war, or the occurrence of natural disaster), restrictive actions by foreign governments or changes in United States laws and regulations. Changes in regulations or enforcement may adversely impact our business We are subject to federal, state and local regulations with respect to our operations in the United States. The enactment or enforcement of legislative and regulatory initiatives such as wage or workforce issues, collective bargaining matters, environmental regulation, price and promotion regulation, trade regulations and others could adversely impact our business. Any changes in the way that online business is regulated or taxed could impose additional costs on us and adversely affects our financial results. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations, or revised interpretations of existing laws, relating to the online commerce industry could adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our online and catalog business and the results of operations of those businesses. For example, laws and enforcement practices related to the taxation of catalog, telephone and online commercial activity, including the collection of sales tax on direct response sales, remain in flux. In recent years, states increasingly have focused on the taxation of out of state retailers, such as Amazon, in an effort to reduce their budget shortfalls. As the result of aggressive taxation positions, we have had to terminate our direct response advertisers that are located in states where new laws have passed. In addition, we at times are subject to information requests and claims by states relating to state sales and use tax matters. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that may impose additional burdens on us. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications or commerce over the internet are becoming more prevalent. The law of the internet, however, remains largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, consumer privacy, sales-based and other taxation of e-commerce transactions and the like are interpreted and enforced. Further, our direct response business established physical presence in California in 2011, and as a result is required to collect and remit sales tax on behalf of California customers. This change resulted in decreased sales in California, as we are at a competitive disadvantage against e-commerce retailers who do not collect sales tax from California customers. We cannot provide any assurance that our sales and marketing strategies will result in regaining market share in California. Any adverse change in any of these laws or in the enforcement, interpretation or scope of existing laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. 20 Table of Contents Changes in health care regulations and costs may adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to health care regulations. There are a number of existing and proposed legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to health care that could adversely impact our business. In particular, we expect that the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act will increase our annual health care costs, with the most significant increases coming in 2014. In addition, we self-insure our workers’ compensation claims up to $500,000 per claim and medical insurance claims of up to $400,000 per claim. Excess amounts are covered by stop-loss insurance coverage, subject to an aggregate annual deductible of $100,000 for medical insurance claims. As a result, increases in health care claims or coverage costs may adversely impact our financial condition. We face risks created by litigation and governmental proceedings. Historically, we have been involved in a variety of lawsuits. Current and future litigation that we may face may result in substantial costs and expenses and significantly divert the attention of our management regardless of the outcome, and an unfavorable resolution could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, the litigation we have faced has included purported class action lawsuits based on our credit card practices, payroll practices and other matters, and we may face other purported class action lawsuits in the future. The costs of these lawsuits could be significant, particularly if a plaintiff were to succeed in obtaining certification of a class nationwide or in a large region in which we operate. We are the largest musical instrument retailer in the United States based on revenue. Our significant size within our industry may increase the scrutiny that we receive regarding antitrust or other matters. In the past, we have been subject to an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission regarding our pricing practices. While this investigation was resolved without any action by the Federal Trade Commission, private litigants used some of the information from a related investigation of a major trade association to bring class action claims presently pending against us. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for more detail on these claims. These actions, as well as other current and future litigation or governmental proceedings, could lead to increased costs or interruptions of our normal business operations and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Music & Arts business is dependent on state and local funding of music programs in primary and secondary schools, and decreases in funding would adversely affect our Music & Arts business. Our Music & Arts business derives the majority of its revenue from sales or services to music students enrolled in primary and secondary schools. Any decrease in the state and local funding of such music programs could have a material adverse effect on our Music & Arts business and its results of operations. Our inability to address the special risks associated with acquisitions could adversely impact our business. We believe that our expansion may be accelerated by the acquisition of existing music product retailers, including in foreign markets. We regularly investigate acquisition opportunities complementary to our Guitar Center, direct response and Music & Arts businesses. Accordingly, in the ordinary course of business, we consider, evaluate and enter into negotiations related to potential acquisition opportunities. We may pay for these acquisitions in cash or securities or a combination of both. Attractive acquisition targets may not be available at reasonable prices or we may not be successful in any such transaction. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: · diversion of our management’s attention; · integration of acquired businesses with our business; and · unanticipated legal liabilities and other circumstances or events. Our failure to identify complementary acquisitions, our failure to obtain favorable pricing on those acquisitions or the occurrence of any special risks involved in acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our growth strategy, and our results of operations could be materially affected as a result. 21 Table of Contents Significant increases in fuel prices could adversely impact us. Increased fuel costs have increased both the cost of the products that we purchase as well as the transportation of these products between our distribution or fulfillment centers and our stores or consumers. In addition, fluctuations in gas prices have disrupted consumer spending by leaving consumers with comparatively less money to spend for retail and entertainment. This disruption may lead to reduced sales. Either of these trends could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, business and prospects. Claims of infringement of intellectual property rights of third parties or inadequately acquiring or protecting our intellectual property could harm our ability to compete or grow. Parties have filed, and in the future may file, claims against us alleging that we have infringed third party intellectual property rights. If we are held liable for infringement, we could be required to pay damages or obtain licenses or to cease making or selling certain products. Licenses may not be available at all, or may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, and the cost to defend these claims, whether or not meritorious, could be significant and could divert the attention of management. We could also have our intellectual property infringed. We rely on the trademark, copyright and trade secret laws of the United States and other countries to protect our proprietary rights, but there can be no guarantee that these will adequately protect all of our rights, or that any of our intellectual property rights will not be challenged or held invalid or unenforceable in a dispute with third parties. If we are unable to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We depend on key personnel, including our senior management, who are important to the success of our business. Our success depends to a significant extent on the services of members of our senior management. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals or other key personnel and changes in the composition of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Our Chief Executive Officer resigned in November 2012 and in January 2013 we appointed an interim Chief Executive Officer who is experienced in the specialty retail industry. If we are unable to successfully integrate a new Chief Executive Officer, we could lose the services of other key personnel, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial position. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our projections. From time to time, we release projections and similar guidance regarding our future performance that represent management’s estimates as of the date of release. These projections, which are forward-looking statements, are prepared by our management and are qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in the release. Our projections are not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our registered public accountants nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles or examines the projections and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Projections are necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the projections furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our projections are only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the projections and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data is projected. 22 Table of Contents Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this annual report could result in the actual operating results being different from the projections, and such differences may be adverse and material. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 