ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our net revenues will be negatively affected if third-party payors decide that our products or services are not approved for reimbursement or if healthcare providers do not accept our diagnostic products as clinically useful. Our revenues are highly dependent on our clinical laboratory tests and diagnostic products being approved for reimbursement by Medicare and other government healthcare programs, as well as private insurance companies and managed care organizations, commonly referred to, collectively, as “third-party payors.” We have experienced denials of reimbursement from certain payers in some territories. Third party payors may deny clinical laboratory tests and diagnostic products for reimbursement if they determine that these tests and products are not medically necessary or otherwise not approved for reimbursement under standards independently established by these third-party payors, which may take into consideration factors such as the investigational nature of a particular test or product, or whether less expensive alternatives are available. Each third-party payor makes its own decision as to whether a given diagnostic test is medically necessary and worthy of payment. If Medicare or any other third-party payor determines that any one or more of our clinical laboratory tests are not medically necessary or are not otherwise suitable for reimbursement, healthcare providers may be reluctant to prescribe these tests. Similarly, if the use of our diagnostic products is not approved for reimbursement, purchasers of any one or more of these products could decrease or eliminate their orders of these products. Any change by one or more third-party payors with regard to their existing reimbursement practices could impact the tests and products we offer, the revenue received on each of the tests and products we sell and harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the growth and success of our sales of diagnostic products depends on market acceptance of our products as clinically useful and cost-effective by healthcare providers and clinical laboratories. We expect that most of our diagnostic products will use genotyping and gene expression information to predict predisposition to diseases, disease progression or severity, or responsiveness to treatment. Market acceptance depends on the widespread acceptance and use by healthcare providers of genetic testing for these purposes. The use of genotyping and gene expression information by healthcare providers for these purposes is relatively new. Healthcare providers may not want to use our products designed for these purposes. Also, Medicare and other third-party payors are continually looking at the clinical utility of genetic testing and making determinations as to whether to continue reimbursement for certain genetic tests. These events could impact the tests and products we offer, the revenue received on each of the tests and products we sell and harm our operating results and financial condition. Third-party payors and healthcare providers may look to treatment guidelines such as the National Cholesterol Education Program’s current clinical guidelines for cholesterol testing and management that are contained in the Third Report of the Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in Adults (ATP III), anticipated to be updated in 2010, in making their determinations as to the clinical utility of our diagnostic tests. Some of our advanced diagnostic tests are not included in the current guidelines and may not be incorporated in the future, and other existing tests may be removed, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Efforts by third-party payors, including Medicare, to reduce utilization and reimbursement rates could decrease our net revenues and profitability. Third-party payors have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. From time to time, Congress has considered and implemented changes in the Medicare fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation. A five-year moratorium on changes to the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule ended on December 31, 2008. The Medicare clinical laboratory rates were increased approximately 4.5% as of January 1, 2009 and decreased by approximately 1.9% as of January 1, 2010. In the current economic environment, there is no certainty that these rates will remain at these levels for clinical laboratory testing. Reductions in the reimbursement rates of other third-party payors have occurred and may occur in the future. In 25 Table of Contents the past, these reimbursement rate changes have resulted in reduced prices, added costs and decreased test utilization for the clinical laboratory industry and future rate reductions could have a similar impact on the industry. If the payment amount we receive for our clinical laboratory testing services is reduced, it could harm our operating results and financial condition. Also, if clinical laboratories that purchase our diagnostic products receive reduced payment for their testing services, the reduced payments may cause them to seek lower pricing for our diagnostic products, which could, in turn, harm our operating results and financial condition. From time to time, the federal government has considered whether competitive bidding can be used to provide clinical testing services for Medicare beneficiaries at attractive rates while maintaining quality and access to care. In 2008, Congress enacted legislation that eliminated a proposed competitive bidding demonstration project for clinical testing services. State governments also have considered from time to time whether to apply competitive bidding to clinical testing services. The industry remains concerned about the potential use of competitive bidding for clinical testing services and believes that the quality of services and access to those services could be adversely impacted by implementation of competitive bidding. If competitive bidding were implemented on a regional or national basis for clinical testing, it could harm our operating results and financial condition. We expect efforts to reduce reimbursements, to impose more stringent cost controls and to reduce utilization of clinical test services will continue. These efforts, including changes in law or regulations, may harm our operating results and financial condition. Payment practices by third-party payors where we are out-of-network can harm our operating results and financial condition. A large portion of BHL’s clinical laboratory non-Medicare fee-for-service testing business is currently reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors on an out-of-network, non-participating basis. This means that BHL does not have contracted reimbursement rates with these companies. Blue Cross/Blue Shield and its related entities are the most significant payors of our services with whom we are out-of-network. Blue Cross/Blue Shield sends payment for our services to their beneficiaries instead of us in all states where we conduct business, except for Alabama where we have secured an in-network contract. As a result of this practice, we, in turn, must then seek to collect both the non-contractual payor’s receivables and the patient’s receivables from these beneficiaries. This increases the length of time it takes for us to collect a receivable and reduces the probability of collecting the full amount due. Though we have implemented programs aimed at improving our collections, there can be no assurance that these will be successful. We are in dialogue with various Blue Cross/Blue Shield entities to secure in-network contracts and/or receive payment directly from Blue Cross/Blue Shield. There can be no assurance that these contracting discussions and negotiations will be successful or completed in an expeditious manner. The amounts we are required to spend to collect monies owed to us from patients are significant and harm our operating results and financial condition. We may need to accept lower prices for some of our testing services in exchange for participating in provider networks. In order to contain medical expenses, third-party payors may require BHL to become an in-network, participating provider of clinical laboratory testing services. BHL’s past practice was to be an out-of-network provider. BHL has entered into contracts with, among others, Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Alabama, United Healthcare® (through its PacifiCare® subsidiary) and Aetna® Health Management, LLC as an in-network, participating provider and we are working toward bringing additional BHL business under contract in the future. In-network, participating reimbursement rates are usually substantially lower than those reimbursement rates currently being received by BHL for its testing services and there is no assurance that all of BHL’s tests will be allowed by any particular third-party payor’s coverage determination policies. Therefore, joining these networks could reduce BHL’s net income and harm our operating results and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents Our business is affected by macroeconomic conditions, and adverse changes in U.S. and global economic conditions have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business. Various macroeconomic factors have affected, and may continue to affect, our business and the results of our operations. Negative global market and economic conditions, with tight credit conditions and recession in most major economies, continued through 2009. Slower economic activity, rising unemployment and the related loss of employee-sponsored health insurance, decreased consumer confidence and other factors related to adverse market and economic conditions have and may continue to increase our business costs, cause supplier difficulties, lower our revenues and/or affect the ability of our customers to purchase and pay for our products and services. This, in turn, may harm our operating results and financial condition and cause us to record higher allowances for doubtful accounts in the future. Interest rate changes, illiquid credit market conditions and other factors related to adverse market and economic conditions could also affect the value of our investments and/or adversely affect our ability to obtain external financing. For example, in the six months ended December 27, 2008, we recognized a $3.2 million loss on investments for an other-than-temporary impairment of our investments in senior debt securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. and Washington Mutual Bank N.V. Medicare contracting reforms could change Medicare’s reimbursement policies or rates for our laboratory testing services. Because a large percentage of our revenue is derived from the Medicare fee-for-service program, the Medicare coverage and reimbursement rules are significant to our operations. The Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 mandated the creation of Medicare Administrative Contractors, or MACs, to replace the organizations that administered the Medicare “fee-for-service” programs. The fee-for-service program is the traditional Medicare program where beneficiaries choose the physician or other healthcare provider they wish to see and Medicare and/or the beneficiary pays a fee for each service used. In November 2007, CMS awarded the MAC Jurisdiction 1 (California, Hawaii, Nevada, American Samoa, Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands) to Palmetto GBA. As a Medicare-participating laboratory based in California, we submit our Medicare fee-for-service bills to Palmetto GBA and are subject to Palmetto GBA’s local coverage and reimbursement policies. The full transition to Palmetto GBA occurred effective September 2, 2008. The MAC stated methodology for consolidation and transition of Local Coverage Determinations, or LCDs, was based on the principal of “least restrictive.” A new LCD related to some of our diagnostic services was introduced as a result of the consolidation process and later retired. New LCDs may result in reductions to, delays in or denials for reimbursement for the services we offer. The clinical laboratory fee schedule sets the maximum amount payable under Medicare for each specific laboratory test, identified by its Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code. We bill the Medicare fee-for-service program directly and must accept no more than the scheduled amount as payment in full for covered tests performed on behalf of Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries. Under current law, those services reimbursed under the clinical laboratory fee schedule generally do not result in coinsurance amounts payable by Medicare beneficiaries. In the current economic environment, there is no certainty that these rates will remain at these reimbursement levels for clinical laboratory tests. The payment amount under Medicare’s clinical laboratory fee schedule is important not only for our reimbursement from Medicare, but also because the laboratory fee schedule often establishes the payment amounts set by other third-party payors. Accordingly, a reduction in Medicare reimbursement rates for clinical laboratory services, such as the rate reduction of approximately 1.9% as of January 1, 2010, could result in a corresponding reduction in the reimbursement rates we receive from such third-party payors. Any reductions in reimbursement levels for our laboratory services would decrease our revenues and harm our operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted if healthcare reform focuses on reducing healthcare costs and/or does not recognize the value and importance of diagnostic testing. Government oversight of and attention to the healthcare industry in the United States is significant and may increase. Recently, there has been extensive public discussion of healthcare reform. While it is not possible to predict whether changes in U.S. government regulation of healthcare will occur, or the nature or impact of any such changes, our business could be adversely impacted if healthcare reform focuses on reducing healthcare costs and/or does not recognize the value and importance of diagnostic testing. For example, healthcare reform could lead to Medicare savings by way of a reduction in the laboratory fee schedule reimbursement amounts, future inflation increases to the laboratory fee schedule reimbursement amounts being reduced or eliminated, or the implementation of more restrictive medical policies for laboratory testing. Additionally, there have been recent proposals to require that Medicare beneficiaries pay co-payments for laboratory services. Currently, no such co-payments are required and this would be a substantial change requiring us to alter our billing system and allocate additional resources to our collection efforts, which may not be successful. Finally, a number of proposed healthcare reform bills have included provisions to tax clinical laboratories and manufacturers of diagnostic products. Any of these events and/or changes in laws could harm our operating results and financial condition. The competition in the biotechnology and healthcare industries is intense and evolving. There is intense competition among healthcare, diagnostic, and biotechnology companies attempting to develop new diagnostic products. We are aware of competitors who are engaged in research and development projects that address the same diseases that we are targeting. Our products business competes with companies in the U.S. and abroad that are engaged in the development and commercialization of products and services that provide genetic information. These companies may develop products or services that are competitive with, and could be more effective and/or cost-effective than, the diagnostic products offered by us or our collaborators or licensees, such as analyte specific reagents (ASRs), diagnostic test kits, or diagnostic testing services that perform the same or similar purposes as our or our collaborators’ or licensees’ diagnostic products. Key competitors for our leading products include Luminex Corporation and Hologic, Inc. for our cystic fibrosis products, Siemens for our ViroSeq™ HIV-1 Genotyping System, F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd. and Siemens for the m2000™ system and assays, and Life Technologies for our HLA products. Also, clinical laboratories may offer testing services that are competitive with the diagnostic products sold by us or our collaborators or licensees. For example, a clinical laboratory can use either reagents purchased from manufacturers other than us, or their own internally developed reagents, to provide diagnostic testing services. In this manner, clinical laboratories could offer testing services for a particular disease as an alternative to purchasing diagnostic products sold by us or our collaborators or licensees for use in their testing of the same disease. The testing services offered by clinical laboratories may be easier and more cost-effective to develop and market than test kits developed by us or our collaborators or licensees because the testing services are not subject to the same clinical validation requirements that are applicable to the FDA cleared or approved diagnostic test kits. For example, clinical reference laboratories such as Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, or LabCorp, and Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, or Quest, offer laboratory-developed tests that compete with our ViroSeq HIV-1 Genotyping System. In addition, BHL’s clinical laboratory testing services, and its associated disease monitoring, management, and educational services compete primarily with existing diagnostic, detection and monitoring technologies and disease management service companies. In particular, many clinical reference laboratories, including LabCorp, Sonic Healthcare Limited, Mayo Medical Laboratories, Quest, and other regional laboratory companies, offer clinical testing services using a traditional lipid panel test, which is simpler to perform and less expensive than BHL’s more extensive and proprietary lipid fractionation and related cardiovascular bio-marker tests, and which is widely accepted as an adequate test for assessing and managing risk of cardiovascular disease. Also, other companies, including Atherotech, Inc., LipoScience, Inc., Boston Heart Lab Corporation and Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc., with whom BHL is currently involved in litigation, currently provide alternative methods for lipoprotein subclass analysis using different technologies than BHL’s testing services. In addition, companies, 28 Table of Contents including Healthways, Inc. and LifeMasters Supported SelfCare, Inc., and internal efforts by some healthcare payors, such as United Healthcare, compete with BHL’s disease monitoring and management and lifestyle modification offerings. Many of BHL’s actual or potential competitors have longer operating histories, better name recognition and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities than BHL has. These competitors also may have more experience in research and development, billing and collections, regulatory matters and manufacturing. Many of these companies, particularly those selling the traditional lipid panel test, offer tests or services that have been approved for third-party reimbursement. BHL’s current or potential competitors may use, or develop in the future, technologies that are superior to, or more effective than, BHL’s, which could make BHL’s tests noncompetitive or obsolete. Failure to collect receivables, or to timely or accurately bill for our services, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the year ended December 26, 2009, our allowance for doubtful accounts charge was $30.1 million primarily due to the provision of BHL’s accounts receivable over 360 days outstanding and tests that have been denied for reimbursement. These balances were primarily due from patients. Any failure to improve our collections, or a further deterioration in our receivables, will harm our operating results and financial condition. Billing for clinical testing services is complex and is subject to extensive and non-uniform rules and administrative requirements. Depending on the billing arrangement and applicable law, we bill various third-parties, such as patients, insurance companies, Medicare, physicians and hospitals. A significant portion of our accounts receivable is owed to us by individual patients. In general, it is difficult to collect amounts owed to us by individuals and it is becoming increasingly more difficult to do so in the current economic environment. Changes in laws and regulations could increase the complexity and cost of our billing process. Additionally, auditing for compliance with applicable laws and regulations as well as internal compliance policies and procedures adds further cost and complexity to the billing process. Further, our billing processes and systems require significant and continuing technology and human resource investments. Missing or incorrect information on requisitions adds complexity to and slows the billing process, creates backlogs of unbilled requisitions, and generally increases the aging of accounts receivable and our allowance for doubtful accounts. We believe that a portion of our allowance for doubtful accounts is attributable to inaccurate billing information. Failure to timely or correctly bill may lead to our not being reimbursed for our services or an increase in the aging of our accounts receivable, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to billing federal healthcare programs and private third-party payors could lead to various penalties, including: exclusion from participation in the Medicare program; asset forfeitures; civil and criminal fines and penalties; and the loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, any of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our competitive position depends on maintaining our intellectual property protection. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary discoveries and technologies through obtaining and enforcing intellectual property rights, including patent rights, copyrights, trade secrets, and trademarks, and operating without infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our ability to obtain patent protection for the inventions we make, including those relating to novel methods of diagnosing and/or treating diseases, is uncertain. The patentability of these and other types of biotechnology inventions involves complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether patents will issue or the breadth of claims that will be allowed in biotechnology patents. This may be particularly true with regard to the patenting of gene sequences, gene functions, genetic variations and methods of diagnosis of disease based on genetic variations. These types of gene patents have recently been challenged in a lawsuit filed by public interest groups. Future changes in policies or laws, or interpretations of these policies or laws, 29 Table of Contents relevant to the patenting of biotechnology inventions could harm our patent position in the U.S. or other countries. Opposition to the protection of these inventions in the U.S. or other countries could result in stricter standards for obtaining or enforcing biotechnology patent rights. In some instances, patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in secrecy until a patent issues. In most instances, the content of U.S. and international patent applications is made available to the public approximately eighteen months after the initial filing from which priority is claimed. As a result, we may not be aware that others have filed patent applications for inventions covered by our patent applications and may incorrectly believe that our inventors were the first to make the invention. Accordingly, our patent applications may be preempted or we may have to participate in interference proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. These proceedings determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the claimed invention in the U.S. In addition, disputes may arise in the future with regard to the ownership of rights to any invention developed with collaborators, which could result in delays in, or prevent, the development of related products. We also rely on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information and procedures, including procedures related to sequencing genes and to searching and identifying important regions of genetic information. We protect our trade secrets through recognized practices, including access control, confidentiality and non-use agreements with employees, consultants, collaborators and customers, and other security measures. These confidentiality and non-use agreements may be breached, however, and we may not have adequate remedies for a breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. Accordingly, it is uncertain whether our reliance on trade secret protection will be adequate to safeguard our confidential and proprietary information and procedures. Following the split-off from Life Technologies, Life Technologies may compete with us in our diagnostics business directly or enable others to compete with us by providing them access to its intellectual property, reagents, and technologies. Life Technologies’ reagent and clinical laboratory testing service business in human diagnostics was historically operated exclusively through Celera. As a result, Life Technologies has not competed with us in this business, nor was it permitted to enable others to compete with us in the business by providing them access to its intellectual property, reagents, and technologies. Since the split-off, Life Technologies may directly compete with us or enable others to compete with us in human diagnostics, except that for a period of three years following the July 1, 2008 split-off date, Life Technologies, subject to specified exceptions, is restricted in its ability to supply any reseller with capillary electrophoresis sequencers for commercialization of human diagnostic tests outside of Asia, Africa, the Middle East and South America, nor is it able to itself commercialize these tests anywhere in the world for the same three year period. In addition, Life Technologies is restricted from supplying any third-party reseller with real-time instruments for use in the human in vitro diagnostics, or HIVD, field, unless the third party has obtained a license to Life Technologies real-time intellectual property in the field, although the third party cannot commercialize human diagnostic tests for specified conditions on these instruments for three years following the split-off date. Competition from Life Technologies in all other areas of our business may limit our success in expanding our product offerings into new areas and disease indications. The restrictions on Life Technologies described above do not apply to the commercialization of an existing competing product (as specifically defined in the operating agreement between us and Life Technologies) acquired as part of an acquisition of a third party by Life Technologies, nor do they prohibit an acquiror of Life Technologies from continuing to commercialize an existing competing product following an acquisition. Accordingly, Life Technologies is not prohibited from continuing to commercialize existing competing products commercialized by Invitrogen prior to the Applied Biosystems/Invitrogen merger. We understand that Life Technologies has high resolution HLA typing products that might be characterized as existing competing products. In addition, Life Technologies may have existing competing products, that we are not aware of, that may not be subject to the restrictions described above. 30 Table of Contents Life Technologies is subject to a class action lawsuit relating to its offering of shares of Celera Group tracking stock in 2000 that may result in liabilities for which we have agreed to indemnify Life Technologies. Life Technologies and some of its officers are defendants in a lawsuit brought on behalf of purchasers of Celera Group tracking stock in its follow-on public offering of Celera Group tracking stock completed on March 6, 2000. In the offering, Life Technologies sold an aggregate of approximately 4.4 million shares of Celera Group tracking stock at a public offering price of $225 per share. The lawsuit was commenced with the filing of several complaints in 2000, which have been consolidated into a single case which has been certified by the court as a class action. The consolidated complaint generally alleges that the prospectus used in connection with the offering was inaccurate or misleading because it failed to adequately disclose the alleged opposition of the Human Genome Project and two of its supporters, the governments of the U.S. and the U.K., to providing patent protection to our genomic-based products. The complaint also alleges that Life Technologies did not adequately disclose the risk that it would not be able to patent this data. Under the terms of our separation agreement with Life Technologies, we agreed to indemnify Life Technologies for liabilities resulting from the class action suit described above, as well as other actions pending on the split-off date or that may arise in the future, to the extent such actions are ultimately determined to relate to or arise out of the Celera business, assets or liabilities, in each case, to the extent not covered by Life Technologies’ insurance. There is no limit on the maximum amount of monetary damages for which we may be required to indemnify Life Technologies for such suits. If plaintiffs in these suits are ultimately successful on the merits, the resulting liabilities for which Celera is responsible could have a material adverse impact on Celera’s business and financial condition. The allocation of intellectual property rights between Life Technologies and us in connection with the split-off may harm our business. Prior to the split-off from Life Technologies, we had access to all intellectual property owned or licensed by Life Technologies for use in the human diagnostics field. Under the separation agreement with Life Technologies, intellectual property developed by Celera or used primarily in our business was transferred to us on or prior to the split-off date. However, some intellectual property currently used in substantially all of our diagnostic products is also used by Life Technologies and has been retained by Life Technologies. All intellectual property that has been retained by Life Technologies and that is used in our diagnostic products is being made available to us through a master purchase agreement with Life Technologies. The early termination or failure to comply with the terms of the master purchase agreement or an increase in the prices for these goods and services after its expiration could harm our business. Also, we may need to obtain additional licenses from third parties for rights that were not transferred to us from Life Technologies. Our inability to obtain these licenses or to obtain these licenses on commercially acceptable terms could affect our ability to develop and sell some of our diagnostic products. Any change to our product development or production activities could harm our operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to restrictions to preserve the tax-free treatment of the split-off and may not be able to engage in desirable acquisitions and other strategic transactions following the split-off. Under the tax matters agreement and separation agreement that we have entered into with Life Technologies, to preserve the tax-free treatment of the split-off to Life Technologies, we may be subject to restrictions for the two-year period following the split-off on our ability to: • issue equity securities to satisfy financing needs; • acquire businesses or assets with equity securities; or • engage in mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the split-off. 31 Table of Contents However, if Life Technologies were determined to be subject to tax on the distribution of the Celera Corporation common stock, we would no longer be subject to these restrictions. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business and may also discourage, delay or prevent a merger, change of control, disposition of our subsidiaries or divisions or other strategic transactions involving our issuance of equity. The negotiation of the split-off agreements between us and Life Technologies were effected through discussions among Life Technologies employees, some of whom, following the split-off, became our employees but some of whom did not and may have remained as employees of Life Technologies, and without involvement in, or review of, the agreements by independent outside advisors to us or an independent Board of Directors of Celera. Celera Corporation was formed to effect the split-off and has only operated as an independent company with an independent Board of Directors and independent advisors since July 1, 2008. The split-off agreements between us and Life Technologies were negotiated through discussions among Life Technologies employees, some of whom, following the split-off, became our employees but some of whom did not and may have remained as employees of Life Technologies, and without review by independent advisors to, or an independent Board of Directors of, our Company. Accordingly, the agreements may not reflect terms that would be as favorable to us as would have been negotiated by us if we had been an independent company or had been allowed access to independent advisors. We may be required to record additional impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, and these impairment charges would adversely affect our operating results. As of December 26, 2009, we had $116.3 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. This amount primarily represents the remaining excess of the total purchase price of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets acquired. At December 26, 2009, we also had $101.5 million of intangible assets, net on our balance sheet. As a result of a combination of factors, including broad economic pressures, and the effects of changing business conditions, an interim impairment review for goodwill and long-lived assets was triggered during the three months ended June 27, 2009, resulting in a charge of $15.7 million. Our stock price, which declined during the year ended December 26, 2009, is a significant factor in assessing our fair value for purposes of the goodwill impairment assessment. If our market capitalization remains below our carrying value for a sustained period, we may determine that our long-lived assets are further impaired. Valuation of our long-lived assets requires us to make assumptions about future sales prices and sales volumes for our products. These and other assumptions are used to forecast future cash flows. If actual market conditions differ or our forecasts change, we may be required to assess long-lived assets and could record an additional impairment charge. If we are required to record an additional impairment charge relating to goodwill or long-lived assets, such charges could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to operate profitably as a stand-alone company. Celera had been a business unit of Life Technologies since we commenced operations until the date of the split-off, July 1, 2008. Celera has historically recorded net losses due, in part, to our investment in new technology and diagnostic product discovery and development, and therapeutic target discovery and drug development, as well as other investments required for the expansion of our business operations. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable as a stand-alone company. We may become involved in expensive intellectual property legal proceedings. There has been substantial litigation and other legal proceedings regarding patents and other intellectual property rights relevant to diagnostic and biotechnology products and services. The intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including those held by us, are generally uncertain and involve complex factual, 32 Table of Contents scientific, and legal questions. Our success in diagnostic product development, clinical laboratory testing, and therapeutic target discovery may depend, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing the intellectual property rights of others and our ability to prevent others from infringing our intellectual property rights. Also, contractual disputes related to existing license rights to patents owned by others may affect our ability to develop, manufacture, and sell our products and clinical laboratory testing services. We may initiate proceedings at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to determine our patent rights with respect to others. Also, we may initiate patent litigation to enforce our patent rights or invalidate patents held by others. These legal actions may similarly be initiated against us by others alleging that we are infringing their rights. The cost to us of any patent litigation or proceedings, even if we are successful, could be substantial, and these legal actions may absorb significant management time. Even if we are successful on the merits in any such proceeding, the cost of these proceedings could harm our operating results and financial condition. If infringement claims against us are resolved unfavorably to us, we may be enjoined from manufacturing or selling our products or services without a license from a third party, and we may not be able to obtain a license on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Also, we could become subject to significant liabilities to others if these claims are resolved unfavorably to us. Similarly, our business could be harmed and we could be subject to liabilities because of lawsuits brought by others against Abbott Laboratories, who serves as the exclusive distributor for most of our diagnostic products, and from whom we obtain royalties for sales of certain of their molecular diagnostic products. We have a dispute with Life Technologies concerning the tax matters agreement entered into in connection with our separation from Life Technologies. We believe that Life Technologies has materially breached the tax matters agreement entered into in connection with the split-off by eliminating a tax asset transferred to us. Other disputes may arise in connection with the parties’ obligations under the split-off agreements. Any legal proceedings on these matters may be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We rely on independent healthcare providers, laboratories, and others to collect and process patient specimens. We have a limited internal network of BHL employees and contractors who are able to collect blood specimens for us. We rely on independent healthcare providers and other clinical laboratories to collect and send to our laboratory for testing most of our clinical laboratory specimens and the information required for proper billing. Although we believe we pay our service providers fair market value consideration for specimen collection and processing services and in compliance with anti-kickback and anti-referral laws, legal restrictions prohibit us from paying additional consideration, such as a referral fee, for these services. Because these services are time-consuming and may not be a business priority for the companies and individuals we rely on to provide them, the fair market value consideration may not be sufficient incentive for them to continue providing these services. If we are unable to obtain or maintain needed collection and processing services, we would be unable to obtain patient samples for testing, which would harm our operating results and financial condition. Some of our diagnostic research and product development programs require access to human tissue and/or blood samples, other biological materials, and related information, which may be in limited supply. We may not be able to obtain or maintain access to human tissue, blood and other biological materials and information on acceptable terms, or may not be able to obtain needed consents from individuals providing tissue, blood, or other samples. In addition, government regulation in the U.S. and foreign countries could result in restricted access to, or use of, human tissue or blood samples or other biological materials. For example, the European Union Directive on Data Protection may restrict our access to human samples and related clinical data from countries of the European Union if we are not able to meet the required standard of privacy protection. If we lose access to sufficient numbers or sources of tissue or blood samples or other required biological materials, 33 Table of Contents or if tighter restrictions are imposed on the use of related clinical or other information or information generated from tissue or blood samples or other biological materials, these research and development programs and our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Also, the supply by Life Technologies of some goods and services used in our business is governed by the terms of the master purchase agreement we entered into at the split-off date, and Life Technologies no longer provides us with exclusive access to these goods and services. These differences may harm our operating results and financial condition. If the split-off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities, and we could be required to indemnify Life Technologies for taxes. On June 18, 2008, Life Technologies received a tax opinion from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP to the effect that the split-off, together with certain related transactions necessary to effectuate the split-off, (i) should qualify under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code as an exchange that is tax-free to the Celera Group tracking stock holders, although in light of the then pending Invitrogen/Applied Biosystems merger there is a significant risk that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and a court could conclude to the contrary, and (ii) will be tax-free to Celera. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings, including those relating to the pre or post split-off activities of Life Technologies and Celera. Actions taken by Life Technologies or us that are inconsistent with such facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings could result in the split-off being treated by the IRS as a taxable transaction. The IRS is not bound by the opinion and could determine that the split-off should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated by either Celera or Life Technologies as a result of pre or post split-off activity, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the split-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, Life Technologies would be subject to tax as if it had sold the Celera Corporation common stock in a taxable sale at fair market value, and our initial public stockholders, the former holders of Celera Group tracking stock whose stock was redeemed in exchange for shares of our common stock in the split-off, should recognize either (A) gain or loss equal to the difference between the fair market value of the shares of Celera Corporation common stock received and the holder’s tax basis in the Celera Group tracking stock redeemed in exchange for the shares of Celera Corporation common stock or (B) in certain circumstances, a distribution equal to the fair market value of the shares of Celera Corporation common stock received, which should be taxed (i) as a dividend to the extent of such holder’s pro rata share of Life Technologies’ current and accumulated earnings and profits, then (ii) as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of such holder’s tax basis in the Celera Group tracking stock redeemed, and finally (iii) as capital gain with respect to the remaining value. Under the tax matters agreement between Life Technologies and us, we would generally be required to indemnify Life Technologies against any tax resulting from the exchange if the tax resulted from: • an issuance of our equity securities, a redemption of our equity securities, or our involvement in other acquisitions of our equity securities, • other actions or failures to act by us, or • any of our representations or undertakings being incorrect and violated. Our indemnification obligations to Life Technologies and its subsidiaries, officers and directors are not limited by any maximum amount. If we are required to indemnify Life Technologies or any other person under the circumstances set forth in the tax matters agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. 34 Table of Contents We conduct our clinical laboratory testing business in a heavily regulated industry and changes in regulations or violations of regulations could, directly or indirectly, harm our operating results and financial condition. The clinical laboratory testing industry is highly regulated and there can be no assurance that the regulatory environment in which we operate will not change significantly and adversely in the future. In particular, there is risk of healthcare reform or other legislative activity in the near future, which may result in changes in the regulatory or payor environment that may adversely affect our business. Areas of the regulatory environment that may affect our ability to conduct business include, without limitation: • federal and state laws applicable to billing and claims payment; • federal and state laboratory anti-mark-up laws; • federal and state anti-kickback laws; • federal and state false claims laws; • federal and state self-referral and financial inducement laws, including the federal physician anti-self-referral law, or the Stark Law; • coverage and reimbursement levels by Medicare and other governmental payors and private insurers; • federal and state laws governing laboratory licensing and testing, including CLIA; • federal and state laws governing the development, use and distribution of diagnostic medical tests known as laboratory developed tests or “LDTs”; • the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, along with the revisions to HIPPA as a result of the HITECH Act, and analogous state laws; • federal, state and foreign regulation of privacy, security, electronic transactions and identity theft; • federal, state and local laws governing the handling and disposal of medical and hazardous waste; • Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules and regulations; and • changes to other federal, state and local laws, including tax laws. These laws and regulations are extremely complex and in many instances, there are no significant regulatory or judicial interpretations of these laws and regulations. Any determination that we have violated these laws or regulations, or the public announcement that we are being investigated for possible violations of these laws or regulations, could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, a significant change in any of these laws or regulations may require us to change our business model in order to maintain compliance with these laws or regulations, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our clinical laboratory testing services are subject to federal and state anti-kickback and anti-referral laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit payment, or offers of payment, in exchange for referrals of products and services for which reimbursement may be made by Medicare or other federal and state healthcare programs. Some state laws contain similar prohibitions that apply without regard to the payor of reimbursement for the services. Federal and state anti-referral laws, including the Stark Law, prohibit physicians from referring their Medicare or other federally funded healthcare program patients or specimens to healthcare providers with which the physicians or their immediate family members have a financial relationship involving some types of health services. The financial relationships covered by these prohibitions include clinical laboratory services such as those provided by BHL. Some state laws also contain similar prohibitions that apply without regard to the payor of reimbursement for the services. Based on our analysis of publicly-disclosed government settlements and public announcements by various government officials, we believe the federal officials responsible for administering and enforcing the healthcare laws and regulations have made a priority of eliminating healthcare fraud. While we seek to conduct our business 35 Table of Contents in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, many of the laws and regulations applicable to our business, particularly those relating to billing and reimbursement of tests and those relating to relationships with physicians, hospitals and patients, contain language that has not been interpreted by courts. We must rely on our interpretation of these laws and regulations based on the advice of our counsel, and regulatory or law enforcement authorities may not agree with our interpretation of these laws and regulations and may seek to enforce legal remedies or penalties against us for violations. From time to time we may need to change our operations, particularly pricing or billing practices, in response to changing interpretations of these laws and regulations or regulatory or judicial determinations with respect to these laws and regulations. These occurrences, regardless of their outcome, could damage our reputation and harm important business relationships that we have with healthcare providers, laboratories, and others. Furthermore, if a regulatory or judicial authority finds that we have not complied with applicable laws and regulations, we would be required to refund amounts that were billed and collected in violation of such laws and regulations. In addition, we may voluntarily refund amounts that were alleged to have been billed and collected in violation of applicable laws and regulations. In either case, we could suffer civil and criminal damages, fines and penalties, exclusion from participation in governmental healthcare programs and the loss of licenses, certificates and authorizations necessary to operate our business, as well as incur liabilities from third-party claims, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, if we or physicians or other third parties with whom we do business are investigated by a regulatory or law enforcement authority we could incur substantial costs, including legal fees, and our management may be required to divert a substantial amount of time to an investigation. Our clinical laboratory testing service business is subject to HIPAA and other laws and regulations pertaining to privacy, security and identity theft. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its related privacy and security regulations establish federal standards governing the use and disclosure of certain individually identifiable health information, which is referred to as protected health information, or PHI. We are also subject to state privacy and security laws that in some cases impose more stringent requirements than HIPAA and its related regulations. In addition, we must comply with the laws of other countries that regulate the transfer of healthcare data relating to citizens of those countries. HIPAA, as well as state and foreign privacy and security regulations, provide for significant fines and other penalties for the wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Although HIPAA and the related regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of action, we also could incur damages under state and foreign laws to individuals claiming that we wrongfully used or disclosed their confidential health information or other private personal information. In February 2009, President Obama signed into law economic stimulus legislation known as the “American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009” (ARRA). Title XIII of the ARRA, also known as the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act, contains extensive revisions to HIPAA. The changes to HIPAA include new restrictions on the use of PHI without an individual’s written authorization, a new requirement to account for routine disclosures of PHI held in an electronic health record, a requirement to notify individuals of breaches to their PHI, new rights of a state attorney general to enforce HIPAA violations, extension of certain HIPAA privacy and security law provisions and penalties to business associates of covered entities, and significantly increased penalties for violations of the law. These changes are significant and have required, and will continue to require, investment and management attention. In addition, since several of the provisions contemplate future adoption of implementing regulations, we cannot at this time determine the full extent to which these changes will impact our business, or how much it will cost us to comply in total. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission has instituted new requirements, called the “Red Flags Rule,” to protect consumers against identity theft and to impose obligations on certain institutions to curb identity theft. The Red Flags Rule applies to any entity that regularly defers payments for goods or services or arranges for the extension of credit, and for which there is reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft. Entities subject to the Red Flags Rule must implement an identity theft prevention program, which must include written policies 36 Table of Contents and procedures to identify and detect “red flags” of identity theft. The program must also indicate what actions will be taken when red flags are identified, and must be re-evaluated periodically to reflect new risks from identity theft. Although enforcement of the Red Flags Rule is not expected until mid-2010, our billing and collection practices could make us subject to the Red Flags Rule. To the extent we are subject to the Red Flags Rule, we do not know how much it will cost us to comply. If applicable, any failure to comply may subject us to financial penalties once enforcement of the Red Flags Rule commences. Certain of our specialized diagnostic tests take advantage of the “laboratory developed test” exception from FDA review and any changes to the FDA’s policies with respect to this exception could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. A number of esoteric tests that are developed and validated internally at BHL are first offered as laboratory developed tests or “LDTs.” The FDA maintains that it has authority to regulate the development and use of LDTs as diagnostic medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act but to date has decided not to exercise its authority with respect to most LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories as a matter of enforcement discretion. A portion of BHL’s diagnostic tests are LDTs for which it has not obtained FDA premarket clearance or approval. The FDA regularly considers the application of additional regulatory controls over the sale of ASRs and the development and use of LDTs by laboratories such as ours. Further, the FDA has been petitioned to exercise regulatory authority over certain LDTs and to initiate enforcement action against companies that make effectiveness claims about LDTs that are without sufficient analytical and clinical support. Based on recent comments, the FDA is expected to look at the sale and use of LDTs with heightened scrutiny or modify its regulatory approach with respect to LDTs. If FDA regulation of LDTs increases or if regulation of the various medical devices used in laboratory-developed testing ensues, it would lead to an increased regulatory burden, which may prevent or hinder us from marketing current products or services and developing new products or services, and could harm our operating results and financial condition. There is a high demand for, and short supply of, key personnel needed for our clinical laboratory testing services. Our existing clinical laboratory services operations require individuals who are licensed as Clinical Laboratory Scientists in the State of California. We believe that to continue operating and to expand our clinical laboratory testing services, we must continue to attract and retain these licensed Clinical Laboratory Scientists. There is a shortage of licensed Clinical Laboratory Scientists in the State of California, and we compete for these personnel with hospitals, other clinical laboratories, and other healthcare providers. Licensed Clinical Laboratory Scientists may prefer to work for these other organizations either because of the compensation offered, the reputations of the organizations, or other personal considerations. If we are unable to attract and retain a sufficient number of licensed Clinical Laboratory Scientists, the current operations of our clinical laboratory testing business could be harmed and the future growth of these services could be delayed or prevented. A portion of our workforce has unionized, and our operations may be adversely affected by increased labor costs, work stoppages or strikes. On February 16, 2010, our clinical laboratory scientists (21 employees) elected to be represented by the Office & Professional Employees International Union, Local 29. We are in the process of negotiating with the union for the terms of a collective bargaining agreement. The outcome of the negotiations may not be favorable to us. We may reach agreements in collective bargaining that increase our operating expenses and harm our operating results as a result of higher wages or benefits expenses. In addition, negotiations could divert management attention and disrupt operations, which may adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to negotiate a satisfactory collective bargaining agreement, we could be involved in a labor dispute or strike that could lead to a shutdown in BHL’s clinical laboratory and harm our operating results and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents We rely on single suppliers or a limited number of suppliers of instruments, key components of our products and a test kit used in our clinical laboratory testing services. Several key components of our diagnostic products and a test kit used in our clinical laboratory testing services come from, or are manufactured for us by, a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers, including Life Technologies. Key components of our diagnostic products include enzymes, fluorescent dyes, phosphoramidites, and oligonucleotides. We acquire some of these and other key components on a purchase-order basis, meaning that the supplier is not required to supply us with specified quantities over any set period of time or set aside part of its inventory for our forecasted requirements. We have not arranged for alternative supply sources for some of these components should suppliers become unable to meet our demand or become unwilling to do so on terms that are acceptable to us. It may be difficult, if not impossible, to find alternative suppliers, especially to replace enzymes, fluorescent dyes, phosphoramidites, and oligonucleotides. In addition, we rely on single source suppliers, particularly Life Technologies, to provide instruments, associated software, and consumables for use in our products business. We obtain Lp-PLA2 test kits, known as PLAC® test kits, used in our clinical laboratory testing services from a single supplier — diaDexus, Inc., or diaDexus. To our knowledge, diaDexus is the only supplier of PLAC® test kits used in clinical laboratory testing in the United States, and, therefore, it is possible that no alternative supply source would be available should diaDexus become unable to provide a sufficient number of these kits to meet our demand or become unwilling to do so on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that diaDexus will be able to meet our demand for these kits in the future or sell these test kits to us on acceptable terms. If we are unable to obtain Lp-PLA2 tests kits from diaDexus, our Lp-PLA2 test revenue will be impacted. If any of the components of our products or any of the kits used for our laboratory testing services are no longer available in the marketplace, or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, we may be forced to further develop our products or testing services to use alternative components or test kits or discontinue the products or testing services. Changes in our products or services or the use of new components may require us to seek new regulatory clearances, approvals or licenses and may be costly. We expect BHL’s lawsuit against Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc. and certain former employees of BHL to divert management’s attention and involve significant costs, and the actions of these defendants have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect BHL’s business. On January 14, 2010, BHL filed a complaint seeking injunctive relief and damages in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against Health Diagnostic Laboratory, Inc. and certain former employees of BHL. In the litigation, BHL has asserted a number of claims against the defendants, including claims for misappropriation of trade secrets and interference with BHL’s client relationships. The defendants’ activities have been concentrated in the Southeast, which historically has been the highest-volume sales territory for BHL. The Court issued a temporary restraining order in this matter which, among other things, restricted the individual sales representative defendants from soliciting certain BHL physician clients and imposed restrictions on the defendants from soliciting BHL employees for employment. The temporary restraining order was replaced by a consent order agreed to by the parties that remains in effect until trial, which is scheduled for May 10-12, 2010. The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with this litigation has been, and is expected to continue to be, significant. The outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain, and we cannot be sure that BHL will prevail. Regardless of the outcome of this lawsuit, the activities of the defendants have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect BHL’s business due to lost business from accounts serviced by the former sales representatives identified in the litigation, and are expected to harm our operating results and financial condition. Our success will depend on our ability to retain our key employees. One of our primary assets is our highly skilled personnel. These personnel could leave us and thereby deprive us of the skill and knowledge essential for performance of our existing and new business. The overall 38 Table of Contents level of benefits and compensation offered to employees of Celera may be less than that of our competitors. If any of our key personnel leaves, it could harm our operating results and financial condition. Ethical, legal, and social issues may decrease demand for our diagnostic products and clinical laboratory testing business. Genetic testing has raised issues regarding confidentiality and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For example, concerns have been expressed regarding the use of genetic test results by insurance carriers or employers to discriminate on the basis of this information, resulting in barriers to the acceptance of genetic tests by consumers. These concerns could lead to governmental authorities calling for limits on, or regulation of the use of, genetic testing or prohibiting testing for genetic predisposition to some diseases, particularly those that have no known cure. Were any of these scenarios to occur, it could reduce the potential markets for our business and, therefore, harm our operating results and financial condition. Our scientific discoveries may not be replicated in some studies by other investigators, which may negatively impact the acceptance of our diagnostic products and testing services. Our scientific discoveries of an association between certain genetic variants and risk for disease or drug response may not be replicated in studies by other investigators. As examples, a recent publication stated that the KIF6 gene variant did not associate with coronary artery disease, or CAD, or myocardial infarction in subjects with CAD in the Ottawa Heart Study, and a presentation at the annual meeting of the American Heart Association in 2009 claimed that KIF6 carriers were not associated with increased risk for major vascular events (MVE) or response to simvastatin in a preliminary analysis of the Heart Protection Study (HPS). Non-replication might be due to a variety of reasons including: studies that are statistically under-powered to find such an association; limitations common to case-control studies, such as the absence of fatal myocardial infarctions in cases; analysis of a different clinical endpoint (such as CAD or MVE) than was done in our studies; and the absence of clinical information on underlying drug use in the patients studied, and statin use in the placebo arm of the HPS. Reports on non-replication, whatever the cause, may negatively affect the acceptance of our diagnostic products and testing services by the medical community and customers, and could harm our operating results and financial condition. The FDA has issued draft guidance on IVDMIAs, which may prevent others from using our diagnostic products. The FDA has issued draft guidance on a new class of laboratory developed tests called “In-Vitro Diagnostic Multivariate Index Assays,” or IVDMIAs. This draft guidance, which was issued in 2006 and 2007, represents the FDA’s first public discussion of its position on IVDMIAs, which generally are tests developed by a single clinical laboratory for use only in that laboratory, and which combine the values of multiple variables using an interpretation function to yield a single patient-specific result for use in the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of diseases or other conditions. If this draft guidance becomes final and is enforced, a laboratory-developed test that meets the definition of an IVDMIA could not be used for diagnostic purposes before the laboratory receives FDA clearance or approval for use of that test. The requirements for FDA clearance or approval are evolving, but could include the requirement that the laboratory seek clearance pursuant to Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FFDCA. The Section 510(k) clearance process generally requires the filing of notice with the FDA with clinical data demonstrating that the product and its intended purpose are “substantially equivalent” to a diagnostic device that is already cleared or approved for marketing by the FDA. If a 510(k) premarketing clearance is not obtained, the laboratory could be required to file a FDA pre-market approval or PMA application under the FFDCA, which must demonstrate that a diagnostic device is safe and effective, and must be supported by more extensive information than required for a 510(k) notification. However, because the IVDMIA guidance document sets forth a new classification, and that guidance remains in draft form, we cannot be certain how, or if, this new classification will affect our business, or if the clearance process will be modified from that described above. 39 Table of Contents We do not believe that the tests currently offered by us are IVDMIAs, as set forth in the draft guidance document, and, therefore, these tests would not be directly affected if the final rules apply the same criteria as the draft guidance. However, clinical laboratories that license some of our intellectual property have developed and may be developing tests using our intellectual property that may be considered IVDMIAs by the FDA. The requirement of FDA clearance or approval for any of these tests could delay or prevent them from being used or discourage their further development, which in turn, could delay or prevent altogether payments to us from the use of these laboratory-developed tests. Also, it is possible that some of our current or future diagnostic products could be indirectly affected because other companies might want to use our diagnostic products as part of an IVDMIA, although we are not aware of any customers that currently use our diagnostic products in this manner. The requirement of FDA clearance or approval for any of these tests could discourage their development, or delay or prevent them from being used if developed, which in turn, could affect the demand for our products being used as a part of these tests. In addition, some of our future tests used in our clinical laboratory testing services could meet the definition of an IVDMIA and therefore require FDA clearance or approval. Our clinical laboratory testing service business could be adversely impacted by CMS’ adoption of the new coding set for diagnoses. CMS has adopted a new coding set for diagnosis, commonly known as ICD-10, which significantly expands the coding set for diagnoses. The new coding set is currently required to be implemented by October 1, 2013. We may be required to incur significant expense in implementing the new coding set, and if we do not adequately implement it, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, if as a result of the new coding set physicians fail to provide appropriate codes for desired tests, we may not be reimbursed for such tests. We need to maintain federal and state operating licenses and similar clearances to conduct our clinical laboratory testing. BHL’s clinical laboratory, located in Alameda, California, is regulated by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CLIA is a federal law that regulates clinical laboratory testing performed on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratory testing in the United States. BHL’s CLIA certification requires its clinical laboratory to be inspected every other year in addition to being subject to random CLIA inspections. BHL’s clinical laboratory is also subject to license requirements imposed by the State of California. California laws establish quality standards for day-to-day operation of the clinical laboratory, including the training and skills required of personnel and quality control. BHL’s California and New York state licenses require periodic inspections by the state laboratory licensing authorities. If a CLIA or state inspector finds deficiencies, that finding could lead to the revocation or suspension of, or limitations being placed upon, BHL’s CLIA accreditation or California, New York, or other state licenses. Any revocation, suspension, or limitation of any licenses could prevent BHL from performing all or some of its clinical laboratory testing services and could harm our operating results and financial condition. We no longer have early access to Life Technologies’ instrumentation, reagents, and technologies for use in our diagnostic products and services. Prior to the split-off from Life Technologies, we had access to Life Technologies’ instrumentation, reagents and technologies before they were made available to unaffiliated third parties. This early access provided a competitive advantage to us in developing our products business. After the split-off, our business relationship with Life Technologies is similar to that of any other customer. This change in access to new technologies could harm our competitive position. We do not manufacture the instruments used for our diagnostics products and thus are reliant on third parties for their supply. Life Technologies is the manufacturer of the instruments used to perform certain of our tests including our ViroSeqTM HIV-1 Genotyping System and HLA products. The instruments supplied by Life 40 Table of Contents Technologies are Research Use Only instruments. The FDA now requires that diagnostic products such as these be submitted as systems that include an IVD instrument. We have been in discussions with Life Technologies and other parties for access to a next generation capillary electrophoresis sequencing instrument that may be developed under requirements needed to achieve FDA clearance or approval for our HLA sequencing products as well as new and next-generation sequencing products for U.S. commercialization. We have not reached agreement on this matter and may not in the future. Failure to reach agreement with Life Technologies on access to a suitably developed instrument and the required documentation to support an FDA submission for such products, or another instrument manufacturer with a suitable instrument or that is willing to work with us, could lead to our inability to sell such products that run on capillary electrophoresis sequencing instruments in the U.S. The historical financial information of Celera prior to our split-off from Life Technologies may not be representative of our results as an independent entity, and, therefore, may not be reliable as an indicator of our historical or future results as an independent entity. The historical financial information we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, may not reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been an independent entity during the period. This is because, in part, the financial information reflects allocations for services provided to Celera by Life Technologies. These allocations may not reflect the costs we incur for similar or incremental services as an independent entity. We could encounter difficulties if we were to expand our diagnostic product manufacturing and clinical laboratory testing services. If there were a substantial increase in the demand for our products or services, we would have to increase the capacity of our facilities or establish alternate manufacturing or service arrangements with other companies. We may not be able to effectively manage large increases in capacity. In addition to the difficulties that are inherent in the expansion, development, or acquisition of new facilities, our operations are government regulated and any facility expansion or acquisition would require regulatory approvals, clearances or licenses and/or would need to meet standards specified in applicable laws and regulations. Facilities used for clinical laboratory testing services are subject, on an ongoing basis, to federal and state regulation under CLIA and California, New York, and other state laws and regulations, which is described above in these risk factors. Also, our diagnostic product manufacturing facilities are subject, on an ongoing basis, to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, international quality standards and other regulatory requirements, including requirements for good manufacturing practices, and the State of California Department of Health Services Food and Drug Branch requirements. We may encounter difficulties expanding our diagnostic product manufacturing operations or our laboratory testing services in accordance with these regulations and standards, which could result in a delay or termination of product manufacturing or laboratory testing services. Our business may be harmed by any disruption to our computer hardware, software, and internet applications. Our business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, communicating the results of the analysis to our internal research personnel and our collaborators via the internet and tracking and communicating the results, via the internet and other modalities, of the tests performed by our clinical laboratory testing business. Also, we rely on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. Our business, therefore, depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that our hardware or software malfunctions or there is an interruption in internet service in a way that affects access to our data by our accounting and billing departments, internal research personnel or collaborators, or access to our laboratory testing results by referring professionals or patients, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards. However, it remains vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, 41 Table of Contents physical or software break-ins, software viruses, and similar events. If we fail to maintain the necessary computer capacity and data to support our accounting and billing departments and our collaborators’ and licensees’ discovery, research, and development activities, including our associated computational needs, we could experience a loss of or delay in revenues. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by other companies could harm our operating results and financial condition. We have changed our sales and marketing strategy for our clinical laboratory testing services, and our new strategy could harm our revenues. We believe that growing our clinical laboratory services requires changes to our sales and marketing strategy, including our approach to developing local market territories, selling non-blood based genetic testing services to accounts on a more disbursed basis and using telephone and internet technology to deliver our services. These changes may harm the business we currently receive from our existing accounts, may not be successful in generating business from new accounts and may cost more to implement than we anticipate. Our rights under the split-off agreements we have with Life Technologies may be less favorable to us than if we had remained a business segment of Life Technologies and the terms of our master purchase agreement we have with Life Technologies may be less favorable to us than if it had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. The terms of the split-off agreements we have with Life Technologies may be less favorable to us than if we remained part of Life Technologies. For example, some of the intellectual property rights are being made available to us on a non-exclusive basis through the master purchase agreement, which also covers materials currently provided to us by Life Technologies used in our products and services and research and development, as well as future Life Technologies materials. The master purchase agreement provides for price increases for materials and components during each year of the agreement after the one year anniversary subject to a combination of the Producer Price Index and Employment Cost Index. This could result in us paying more for these products than if we remained part of Life Technologies. In addition, Life Technologies has licensed to us specified intellectual property rights which we and Life Technologies will seek to license to various third parties in the human in vitro diagnostics field. Revenues from these third-party licenses will be shared equally between us and Life Technologies. This could result in us receiving less from these licenses than if we remained part of Life Technologies. In addition, we negotiated our split-off agreements, including our master purchase agreement, with Life Technologies. Had these agreements been negotiated with unaffiliated third parties, their terms might have been more favorable to us. Our separation agreement with Life Technologies requires us to indemnify Life Technologies for specified liabilities, including liabilities relating to the Celera business, specified litigation and one-half of any liabilities resulting from the split-off. Under the terms of our separation agreement with Life Technologies, we have agreed from and after the split-off date to indemnify Life Technologies for indemnifiable losses relating to or resulting from, among other things: • the failure to satisfy or otherwise discharge liabilities of Celera; • our assets and liabilities; • our failure to observe our obligations under the separation agreement or our other split-off agreements with Life Technologies from and after the split-off date; • the class action lawsuit relating to Life Technologies’ offering of shares of Celera Group tracking stock in 2000, as well as other actions pending on the split-off date or that may arise in the future, to the 42 Table of Contents extent such actions are ultimately determined to relate to or arise out of the Celera business, assets or liabilities; • one-half of liabilities resulting from the split-off, the separation agreement and/or the registration statement filed in connection therewith; and • liabilities resulting from the oversight and/or management of the businesses and affairs of Life Technologies or one or both of Celera or Life Technologies prior to the split-off, but only to the extent that such liabilities arise out of or relate to the businesses, assets or liabilities of Celera prior to the split-off or Celera benefited from such oversight and/or management prior to the split-off, in each case to the extent not covered by Life Technologies’ insurance. There is no limit on the maximum amount of monetary damages for which we may be required to indemnify Life Technologies under the separation agreement. As a result, successful indemnification claims could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our clinical laboratory testing services depend primarily on a single courier for the delivery of our clinical specimens. Substantially all patient specimens are sent by healthcare providers and other clinical laboratories to our clinical testing laboratory by an established international overnight shipping service. We use overnight shipping because patient specimens are biological materials that can spoil if not tested on a timely basis after collection from a patient. Therefore, any interruption in shipping, even one that is short in duration, could interfere with our services and harm our business. Our primary courier’s shipping network relies on various modes of transportation, including trucks and airplanes. The transportation of specimens could therefore be delayed or prevented by natural or man-made disasters or other events that interfere with these modes of transportation, including earthquakes, floods, power outages, inclement weather, and terrorism. If there is a delay in the delivery of patient samples that are in-transit, we would have no way to prevent these samples from spoiling. Although there are other companies that provide similar overnight courier services, many of the circumstances that could interfere with our primary courier’s services likely would interfere with the services of other similar couriers. Additionally, we currently have a favorable pricing arrangement with our primary courier. This pricing arrangement is not guaranteed and may be subject to unanticipated price changes. If we need to switch to a different courier because of circumstances that are unique to our primary courier or due to a change in our primary courier’s pricing, it could take us several days or longer to establish an agreement with a new courier, the shipping rates might not be as favorable to us, and our testing services would likely be interrupted. The inability to receive the specimens and perform our tests, even if only for a short period of time, or the loss of specimens due to shipping delays, could interrupt our business and harm our reputation. Commercialization of our diagnostic products is dependent on our agreement with Abbott Molecular, Inc. We lack our own sales organization to sell our diagnostic products to unaffiliated clinical testing laboratories. Accordingly, we are reliant on the efforts of our distributor, Abbott Molecular, Inc., for the sales, promotion, and distribution of most molecular diagnostic products manufactured by us. Our revenues under the agreement are dependent on Abbott’s sales price to end-users which may change over reporting periods. Our ViroSeq™ HIV-1 Genotyping System, cystic fibrosis, and HLA products are mature products that represent a majority of our product revenues. Current market conditions are leading to pricing declines for these products that may not be offset by increased growth in the overall market or our ability to increase our market share for these products, resulting in declining revenue for these products. In addition, a majority of the sales of our diagnostics products and Abbott’s m2000 products are made outside the United States and subject to foreign exchange effects. Changes in foreign exchange rates will have an effect on the revenue of Celera through both product sales and the royalties we receive on m2000 product sales. Although this is a long-term arrangement, the agreement contains provisions that could result in early termination for reasons that include the following: material breach of the agreement by either company that is not cured following 60 days written notice; and upon 43 Table of Contents specified insolvency events. The amount and timing of resources to be devoted to sales activities by Abbott Molecular are generally not within our control. Failure by Abbott to devote sufficient resources to the distribution of our products or the termination of the distribution agreement could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our successful development of diagnostic products may depend on entering into other collaborations, alliances, and partnership arrangements with other companies. Our strategy for the discovery, development, clinical testing, manufacturing and/or commercialization of most of our diagnostic product candidates includes entering into collaborations and similar arrangements with other companies, in addition to our agreements with Abbott. Depending on the nature of the product candidate, our potential collaborators may include pharmaceutical companies, clinical reference laboratories, diagnostic imaging equipment suppliers, or other companies. We have identified some potential new collaborators, but have not yet entered into any collaboration arrangements with them. Although we have expended, and continue to expend, time and money on internal research and development programs, we may be unsuccessful in creating diagnostic product candidates that would enable us to form additional collaborations and alliances and, if applicable, receive milestone and/or royalty payments from collaborators. Other companies may not be interested in entering into these relationships with us, or may not be interested in doing so on terms that we consider acceptable. Our development and commercialization of diagnostic products could be harmed if collaborators or licensees fail to perform under their agreements with us or if they terminate those agreements. Each of our existing collaboration, license, and similar agreements with other companies for the development and commercialization of products, including our distribution agreement and royalty agreement with Abbott, may be canceled under some circumstances. These agreements generally may be terminated under circumstances including a material breach or default of the agreement, a change in control, or the insolvency or bankruptcy of either party. In addition, the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to research, development, clinical trials, and commercialization activities by our collaborators and licensees are generally not within our control. We expect that collaboration, license, and similar agreements entered into in the future, if any, will have similar terms and limitations. Furthermore, even if these agreements contain commitments regarding these activities, our collaborators or licensees may not perform their obligations as expected. If collaborators or licensees terminate their agreements or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative or licensed activities in a timely manner, or at all, the development or commercialization of diagnostic products may be delayed or prevented. If we assume responsibility for continuing diagnostic programs on our own after termination of a collaboration, license, or similar agreement, we may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or we may need to cancel some development programs. Any reallocation of additional resources to product development and/or commercialization or cancellation of development programs may harm our operating results and financial condition. Our licensing and royalty revenues depend on our licensees’ and partners’ maintenance of their agreements with us and their sales of their products. We derive revenues from our licensees’ and partners’ product sales under a number of agreements. Such agreements include our royalty agreement with Abbott, our small molecule sale agreements and our intellectual property license agreements. In addition, we derive licensing revenues from intellectual property licensed from Life Technologies to third parties in the human diagnostics field. Even if these licensees and partners perform their obligations as required by these agreements, their ability to develop, manufacture and commercialize products successfully is uncertain. Since the royalties payable to us under these agreements generally depend on our licensees’ and partners’ sales of their products, which are not within our control, their failure in commercializing their products or maintaining or increasing the sales volumes of their products may harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain of these intellectual property license agreements 44 Table of Contents permit our licensees to pay us an upfront license fee over a period of time during which they have the right to terminate the agreements. In the event that a licensee terminates its license agreement before the upfront license fee is paid in full, we will not be paid any remaining license fee. Our diagnostic product candidates may never result in a commercialized product. Most of our diagnostic product candidates are in various stages of research and development and the ability to commercialize those product candidates, including through collaborators or licensees, is uncertain. Development of existing product candidates will require significant additional research and development efforts by us or our collaborators or licensees before they can be marketed. For potential diagnostic products, these efforts include extensive clinical testing to confirm the products are safe and effective and may require lengthy regulatory review and clearance or approval by the FDA and comparable agencies in other countries. Furthermore, even if these products are found to be safe and effective and receive necessary regulatory clearances or approvals, they may never be developed into commercial products due to considerations such as inability to obtain needed licenses to intellectual property owned by others, market and competitive conditions, and manufacturing difficulties or cost considerations. Our inability to produce commercialized products could harm our operating results and financial condition. Development and commercialization of diagnostic product candidates depends on the satisfaction of regulatory requirements. In the U.S., either we or our collaborators or licensees must show through pre-clinical studies and clinical trials that each of our or our collaborators’ or licensees’ diagnostic product candidates is safe and effective for each indication before obtaining regulatory clearance or approval from the FDA for the commercial sale of that product as an in vitro diagnostic product with clinical claims. Outside of the U.S., the regulatory requirements for commercialization vary from country to country. This regulatory review and approval process can take many years and require substantial expense and may not be successful. If we or our collaborators or licensees fail to adequately show the safety and effectiveness of a diagnostic product candidate because, for example, the results from pre-clinical studies are different from the results that are obtained in clinical trials, regulatory clearance or approval could be delayed or denied. Without regulatory clearance or approval, we or our collaborators or licensees may be unable to complete the development or commercialization of the product for which clearance or approval was sought. The inability of us or our collaborators or licensees to commercialize products could harm our operating results and financial condition. The FDA has issued an interpretation of the regulations governing the sale of ASRs which could prevent or delay our or our collaborators’ or licensees’ sales of these products and make development of new ASR products more difficult, all of which could harm our operating results and financial condition. We believe that all of our current ASR products, other than our HLA ASR products, meet the regulatory definition of an ASR, as set forth in the FDA guidance document. Our products sold as ASRs include HLA products, Fragile X products, and deep vein thrombosis products. We similarly believe that all of the ASR products manufactured and sold by Abbott for which Abbott pays us royalties meet the regulatory definition of an ASR, as set forth in the FDA guidance document. If the FDA does not agree with our interpretations of our ASR products, we may need to establish an appropriate action plan for any affected product, such as reconfiguring the product to bring it into compliance with the ASR definition or seeking clearance pursuant to Section 510(k) of the FFDCA. In June 2008, the FDA issued a letter that stated that the FDA might employ “enforcement discretion” to the sale of ASR products that did not meet the regulatory definition of an ASR, if a manufacturer met with the FDA and developed an approved plan to bring the products into compliance by reconfiguring the product or seeking the appropriate registration. We applied for and received assurance of such “enforcement discretion” for the sale of our HLA ASR products from the FDA, while working with the FDA under a pre-IDE for registering the HLA products. In late July 2009, the FDA notified us that it could no longer consider extending such “enforcement discretion.” Based on additional correspondence, the FDA has reinstated such “enforcement discretion” on a 45 Table of Contents conditional basis pending additional meetings with the FDA. We are actively assessing potential regulatory solutions; however, none may be available, requiring us to discontinue marketing the HLA ASRs. This discontinuation could be permanent and we would no longer receive any revenues from these products and our business could be harmed. Commercialization of our products depends on satisfaction of ongoing regulatory requirements. The manufacture of our and our collaborators’ and licensees’ diagnostic products is subject to the FDA’s Quality System Regulation. Manufacturing problems with respect to any product, including non-compliance with this regulation, could result in withdrawal of regulatory clearance or approval for that product, and could also force us or our collaborators or licensees to suspend manufacturing of, reformulate, conduct additional testing for, and/or change the labeling for, that product. This could delay or prevent us from generating revenues from the sale of any affected diagnostic product. Clinical trials of diagnostic product candidates may not be successful. Potential clinical trials of product candidates may not begin on time, may not be completed on budget or schedule, or at all, or may not be sufficient for registration of the products or result in products that can receive necessary clearances or approvals. Numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical testing could delay or prevent commercialization of our or our collaborators’ or licensees’ diagnostic product candidates. Diagnostic product candidates that appear to be promising at early stages of development or early clinical trials may later be found to be unsafe, ineffective, or to have limited medical value. If we are unable to successfully complete clinical trials for diagnostic product candidates, our operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We could be harmed by disruptions to our critical manufacturing, clinical laboratory, or other facilities. We have headquarters, research and development, manufacturing, administrative, and clinical laboratory facilities in Alameda, Burlingame and South San Francisco, California and do not have alternative facilities or manufacturing or testing backup plans. Our California facilities are located near major earthquake faults. Although following the split-off we have purchased insurance policies covering damages to our operations and facilities resulting from some natural disasters, including flooding, windstorm and lightning, the ultimate impact of disruptions caused by earthquakes, other natural disasters or weather-related events, or other causes, such as acts of terrorism, on us, our significant suppliers, and the general infrastructure is unknown, and our operating results could be harmed if a major earthquake or other disaster occurs. In particular, all of our laboratory testing services are performed at our clinical laboratory facility in Alameda and we do not have access to any backup facility should there be an interruption in operations due to earthquakes or other disasters. It would be expensive and time consuming to repair or replace our laboratory facility or the equipment located at that facility. Furthermore, if operations at our Alameda facility are interrupted, it may be difficult and time-consuming for us to hire another company to perform laboratory testing services, because we would need to find a laboratory that has the required state and federal licenses and would perform our testing services on terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. An earthquake or other disaster could likewise harm our manufacturing capabilities. However, the impact of a manufacturing disruption would depend, in part, on factors such as customer demand and inventory levels of our products. Also, the repair or replacement of our facility or equipment may require new regulatory approvals, clearances or licenses, which would further delay operations. A prolonged or sustained interruption in our facility or equipment could harm our operating results and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents We may pursue acquisitions, investments, or other strategic relationships or alliances, which may consume significant resources, may be unsuccessful, may require us to obtain financing on a stand-alone basis, and could dilute the holders of our common stock. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic relationships and alliances, if pursued, may involve significant cash expenditures, debt incurrence, additional operating losses, and expenses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Acquisitions involve numerous other risks, including: • diversion of management time and attention from daily operations; • difficulties integrating acquired businesses, technologies and personnel into our business; • inability to obtain required regulatory approvals and/or required financing on favorable terms; • entry into new markets in which we have little previous experience; • potential loss of key employees, key contractual relationships, or key customers of acquired companies or of us; and • assumption of the liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies. If these types of transactions are pursued, it may be difficult for us to complete these transactions quickly and to integrate these acquired operations efficiently into our current business operations. Any acquisitions, investments or other strategic relationships and alliances by us may ultimately harm our business and financial condition. In addition, future acquisitions may not be as successful as originally anticipated and may result in impairment charges. We have incurred these charges in recent years in relation to acquisitions. For example, since the year ended June 30, 2002 we have incurred charges for impairment of goodwill, intangibles and other assets and other charges of $30.4 million related to our acquisition of Paracel, Inc. During the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, we incurred charges totaling $28.8 million for severance and benefit costs and asset impairments relating to our acquisition of Axys Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and our subsequent decision to partner or sell our small molecule drug discovery and development programs. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2009, we incurred charges of $15.7 million for the impairment of trade names related to our acquisition of BHL and Atria. In the event we need to obtain financing to complete an acquisition, investment or other strategic relationship or alliance, we will have to do so on a stand-alone basis without reliance on Life Technologies’ overall balance sheet. The cost to us of stand-alone financing may be materially higher than the cost of financing that we might have obtained as part of Life Technologies, and we may not be able to secure adequate debt or equity financing on desirable terms. Also, under our tax matters agreement and separation agreement with Life Technologies, to preserve the tax-free treatment of the split-off to Life Technologies, for the two-year period following the split-off we may be subject to restrictions on our ability to issue equity securities to satisfy financing needs, acquire businesses or assets with equity securities or engage in mergers or asset transfers that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the split-off. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in these transactions (though if Life Technologies were determined to be subject to tax on the distribution of our common stock, we would no longer be subject to these restrictions). In addition, subject to these potential restrictions, acquisitions and other transactions may involve the issuance of a substantial amount of our common stock without the approval of our stockholders. Any issuances of this nature could be dilutive to our stockholders. The market price and trading volume of our common stock has been volatile and may face negative pressure. Our common stock issued in the split-off traded publicly for the first time following the split-off. The market price of our common stock from July 1, 2008 through December 26, 2009 has been volatile, ranging from a high of $17.56 to a low of $5.03. 47 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to the risks and uncertainties described in this “Risk Factors” section, as well as other factors that may affect the market price, such as: • conditions and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostics, or life sciences industries generally; • price and volume fluctuations in the stock market at large which do not relate to our operating performance; and • comments by securities analysts or government officials, including those with regard to the viability or profitability of the biotechnology sector generally or with regard to intellectual property rights of life science companies, or our ability to meet market expectations. The stock market has from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies or the industries in which they compete. In addition, our ability to achieve previously announced financial targets is subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, and other factors affecting our business and the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostics, and life sciences industries generally, many of which are beyond our control. These factors may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe a number of these factors throughout this document, including in this “Risk Factors” section. We cannot assure you that we will meet these targets. If we are not able to meet these targets, it could harm the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our stock could adversely affect our stock’s market price and our ability to raise capital in the future. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock could harm the market price of our stock. This also could harm our ability to raise capital in the future. Any sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that those sales might occur, could harm the market price of our common stock. We will not solicit the approval of our stockholders for the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock unless this approval is deemed advisable by our Board of Directors or is required by applicable law, regulation or stock exchange listing requirements. The issuance of those shares could dilute the value of our outstanding shares of common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock. We currently do not expect to pay any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Holders of our common stock will have to rely on a rise in the market price of our common stock, if any, to earn a return on their investment in our common stock, which rise is uncertain and unpredictable. As a result, you should not rely on an investment in our common stock as a source of dividend income. Anti-takeover provisions could deter takeover attempts of Celera Corporation and limit appreciation of the market price for shares of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated by-laws, and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the impact of delaying or precluding an acquisition of our company without the approval of our Board of Directors. These provisions may limit the price that investors might be otherwise willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include providing for a staggered Board of Directors, advance notice procedures for stockholder proposals and director nominations, as well as a provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that does not afford stockholders the right to call a special meeting of stockholders. In addition, there are provisions of Delaware law that may also have the effect of precluding an acquisition of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. 48 Table of Contents Our collaborations with outside experts may be subject to restriction and change. We collaborate with scientific and clinical experts at academic and other institutions that provide assistance and guidance to our research and development efforts. These advisors and collaborators are not our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. Although they generally agree not to collaborate with our competitors, if a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another company or institution, we may lose the services of these experts. In addition, our advisors and collaborators sign confidentiality agreements that generally prohibit their use or disclosure of our confidential information other than in connection with our collaboration and, where applicable, require disclosure and assignment to us of their ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions arising under our collaboration. These confidentiality agreements generally have a term that lasts for so long as the collaboration is in effect, plus a specified period afterward and are generally terminable by either party upon a breach of the agreement by the other party and, in some cases, upon written notice. These agreements generally permit us to seek injunctive or other relief to prevent unpermitted use or disclosure of our confidential information. However, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known or otherwise available to other parties, including our competitors, through these experts. We may be exposed to product liability or other legal claims relating to our products and services. Clinicians, patients, third-party payors, and others may at times seek damages from us based on testing or analysis errors caused by a technician’s misreading of results, mishandling of the patient samples, or similar claims. Product liability or other claims, or product recalls, regardless of the ultimate outcome, could harm our reputation and require us to spend significant time and money in litigation and to pay significant damages. These damages, if not covered by adequate insurance, could harm our operating results and financial condition. Our operations are subject to potential exposure to environmental liabilities. Our research and development activities, manufacturing activities, and clinical laboratory testing activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Also, some of our diagnostic products are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental or other contamination or injury from these materials, and we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We do not maintain environmental liability insurance and any potential environmental damages for which we become liable may not be covered under our existing insurance policies. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to “strict liability” for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. We could be held similarly responsible for the actions of our other collaborators or licensees. In addition, we are subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. If we are found to be liable for our use of hazardous materials, or fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, or if we are held indirectly responsible for the conduct of our collaborators or licensees found to be non-compliant, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, and/or other adverse governmental action. Any of these events could harm our operating results and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 49 Table of Contents 