Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We cannot be certain of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The Company currently has severely limited capital resources and has incurred significant historical losses and negative cash flows from operations. The Company has historically engaged in the execution of various convertible debt instruments, which have raised significant working capital. A significant portion of such instruments are due on demand or with in the next 12 months, and the Company does not currently have the resources to pay such instruments. The Company has expended or committed a considerable portion of the capital raised through the various debt instruments in the relationship and business operations with Hyundai and Apro and such relationships have now ceased. In addition, the Company has instituted cost reduction measures, including the reduction of workforce and corporate overhead. The Company believes that its recently acquired collaborative relationship with NASA should yield future commercial opportunities, however, there can be no assurances that this will occur. The Company will need to raise additional capital to finance its new operations and repay its existing debts, and there can be no assurances that the Company can raise additional funds or such funds will be on terms acceptable to the Company. Failure of the new businesses to generate such sufficient future cash flow could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and to achieve its business objectives. We compete against entities that have significantly greater name recognition and resources than we do, that may be able to respond to changes in customer requirements more quickly than we can and that are able to allocate greater resources to the marketing of their products. The security industry is highly competitive and has become more so over the last several years as security issues and concerns have become a primary consideration at both government and private facilities worldwide. Competition is intense among a wide ranging and fragmented group of product and service providers, including security equipment manufacturers, providers of integrated security systems, systems integrators, consulting firms and engineering and design firms and others that provide individual elements of a system, some of which are larger than us and possess significantly greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because of the financial and personnel resources they possess. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on third party suppliers for principal components used in our products, and disruptions in supply or significant increases in component costs could materially harm our business. We rely on third parties to supply several key components utilized in the manufacture and implementation of our products and services. Our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, price increases, timely delivery and component quality. Although to date, we have not experienced any disruption in supplies of components, we cannot assure you that there will not be a disruption of our supplies in the future. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of products and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and required customer specifications. Due to the constant changes in our markets, our future success depends on our ability to improve our manufacturing processes, improve existing products and develop new products. The commercialization of new products involves substantial expenditures in research and development, production and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in achieving certain research, development and engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if: we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis; our new products are not introduced on a timely basis; we incur budget overruns or delays in our research and development efforts; or our new products experience reliability or quality problems. The focus of our key management staff may be diverted by efforts in the legal actions against Apro, Huyndai and others. The Company has recently engaged legal representation and has filed suit against Apro, Hyundai and certain other entities and individuals in an effort to recover damages to MSGI resulting from the alleged actions by these companies and individuals. In this effort, the management staff may be placed in a situation where its attention is diverted from development and commercialization efforts with NASA to the requirements of these legal proceedings. Our services and reputation may be adversely affected by product defects or inadequate performance. Management believes that we offer state-of-the art products that are reliable and competitively priced. In the event that our products do not perform to specifications or are defective in any way, our reputation may be materially adversely affected and we may suffer a loss of business and a corresponding loss in revenues. If we are unable to retain key executives or hire new qualified personnel, our business will be adversely affected. We rely on our officers and key employees and their expertise. The loss of the services of any of these individuals may materially and adversely affect our ability to pursue our current business strategy. Our relationship with NASA may not develop as we have expected, which may cause the Company to lose all or a portion of our investment. Our collaboration with NASA may be jeopardized if we have difficulty in assimilating the personnel, operations, technology and software with our newly formed subsidiaries. In addition, the key personnel of NASA or other potential partners may decide to leave their respective companies and positions. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. We may face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, including whether such transactions can be located, completed and the other party integrated with our business on favorable terms. Although the Company continues to devote significant efforts to improving its current operations and profitability, the success of the Company's business strategy may depend upon the acquisition of complimentary businesses. No assurances can be made that the Company will be successful in identifying and acquiring such businesses or that any such acquisitions, if consummated, will result in operating profits. In addition, any additional equity financing required in connection with such acquisitions may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing may impose substantial additional restrictions on the Company's ability to operate and raise capital. In addition, the negotiation of potential acquisitions may require management to divert its time and resources away from the Company's operations. The Company periodically evaluates potential acquisition opportunities, particularly those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: the focus of management's attention on the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations; 14 the incorporation of acquired businesses into the Company's service line and methodologies; the increasing demands on the Company's operational systems; adverse effects on the Company's reported operating results; the amortization of acquired intangible assets; and the loss of key employees and the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image. The largest asset on our books at June 30, 2009 is our investment in Current Technologies, Inc. (“Current”). During 2008, the Company owned approximately 18% of the common stock of Current, and warrants to acquire an additional 20% of the ownership in Current. The company also entered into a subcontract agreement with Current designed to provide sales opportunities for both entities. However, to date, we have not received any sales opportunities from such relationship. We have had to reduce our investment in Current to meet other obligations, such that at June 30, 2009 we own 13% of the common stock of Current, on a fully diluted basis. We may not be able to influence the business relationships as a result of the decline in ownership. Further, the value of the investment in Current may decline, or we may not be able to realize its carrying value, if we are required to dispose of the common stock at unfavorable terms. We may have problems raising money we need in the future. We will require additional capital, especially in light of our recent business developments. We may, from time to time, seek additional funding through public or private financing, including debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that adequate funding will be available as needed or, if it is available, that it will be on acceptable terms. If additional financing is required, the terms of the financing may be adverse to the interests of existing stockholders, including the possibility of substantially diluting their ownership position. Our business is difficult to evaluate because our financial statements do not reflect the operations of our recently developed business relationships. Most recently, we have entered into the collaboration with NASA and have subsequently formed new operating subsidiaries. Therefore, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. Our financial statements do not reflect such activities, are not comparable to our historical financial statements, nor do they give a clear indication of our future performance. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. These requirements necessitate that the Company have adequate accounting and internal audit staffing in order to ensure that compliance is achieved and maintained. The Company is required to be in compliance by the period ended June 30, 2010. The Company does not currently have any dedicated internal audit staff and current internal audit capabilities are limited. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, or engage appropriate consulting services in order to reach and maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. We may experience variations from quarter to quarter in operating results and net income, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results. Quarterly fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause future quarterly fluctuations, including: 15 new customer contracts which may require us to incur costs in periods prior to recognizing revenue under those contracts; the effect of the change of business mix on profit margins; the timing of additional selling, general and administrative expenses to support new business; the costs and timing of the completion and integration of acquisitions, sales of assets and investments; the timing of sales of assets; the cyclical elements of our clients' industries; the demand for our products and services; the market acceptance of new products and services; specific economic conditions in the electronic surveillance industry; and general economic conditions. The anticipated quarterly fluctuations make predictions concerning our future revenues difficult. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicative of our future performance for any subsequent fiscal quarter or for a full fiscal year. It also is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such circumstances, the price of our common stock may decline. Because our sales tend to be concentrated among a small number of customers, our operating results may be subject to substantial fluctuations. Accordingly, our revenues and operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters, making it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects based on the results of any one quarter. Given the nature of our potential customers and products, we may receive relatively large orders for products from a relatively small number of customers. Consequently, a single order from one customer may represent a substantial portion of our sales in any one period and significant orders by any customer during one period may not be followed by further orders from the same customer in subsequent periods. Our sales and operating results are subject to very substantial periodic variations. Since quarterly performance is likely to vary significantly, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that we might achieve for any subsequent period. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. The price of our stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, experiencing wide fluctuations. Such fluctuations may be triggered by: differences between our actual or forecasted operating results and the expectations of securities analysts and investors; announcements regarding our products, services or technologies; announcements regarding the products, services or technologies of our competitors; developments relating to our patents or proprietary rights; specific conditions affecting the electronic surveillance industry; sales of our common stock into the public market; general market conditions; and other factors. 16 In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which have particularly impacted the market prices of equity securities. Some of these fluctuations appear unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many companies. Future market movements may adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect such rights under applicable patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. We seek to protect the intellectual property rights underlying our products and services by filing applications and registrations, as appropriate, and through our agreements with our employees, suppliers, customers and partners. However, the measures we have adopted to protect our intellectual property rights may not prevent infringement or misappropriation of our technology or trade secrets. A further risk is introduced by the fact that many legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of certain proprietary rights in the context of the Internet industry currently are not resolved. We license certain components of our products and services from third parties. Our failure to maintain such licenses, or to find replacement products or services in a timely and cost effective manner, may damage our business and results of operations. Although we believe our products and information systems do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we expect to continue to be, subject to claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of our alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims could damage our business and results of operations by: subjecting us to significant liability for damages; resulting in invalidation of our proprietary rights; being time-consuming and expensive to defend even if such claims are not meritorious; and resulting in the diversion of management time and attention. Even if we prevail with respect to the claims, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention. Any claims from third parties also may result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making such claims. Future sales of our shares could adversely affect its stock price. As of September 30, 2009, there were 39,005,805 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which approximately 28,052,000 shares are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act or are eligible for sale in the public market without regard to the availability of current public information, volume limitations, manner of sale restrictions, or notice requirement under Rule 144(k), and does not include any shares held by or purchased from persons deemed to be our "affiliates" which are subject to certain resale limitations pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding are eligible for sale pursuant to rule 144 under the Securities Act. Since June 30, 2009, the Company has issued 14,590,500 shares of common stock. Of these shares, 5,800,000 were issued under a certain Warrant Exchange Agreement, 500,000 were issued pursuant to a certain short-tem note, 45,500 were issued pursuant to certain addendum to short-terms loans and 8,245,000 were issued to a variety of service providers for services to be rendered. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N/A 17 