ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our quarterly revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We believe our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future. As a result, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of future performance and period-to-period comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below, many of which are outside of our control: • occasional large customer orders, including in particular those placed by the U.S. federal government; • unpredictability and timing of buying decisions by the U.S. federal government; • our inability to increase sales to existing customers and to attract new customers; • the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • higher marketing expenditures in an attempt to generate growing numbers of sales leads; • the mix of our direct and indirect sales; • the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure; • the timing of revenue and expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, products or businesses; • potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and amortization associated with acquired businesses; • the timing and predictability of sales orders from the U.S. federal government or the loss of our relationship with the distributor that helps us fulfill most sales orders from the U.S. federal government; • potential foreign exchange gains and losses related to expenses and sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an associated entity; and • general economic, industry and market conditions that impact expenditures for enterprise IT management software in the United States and other countries where we sell our software. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results might lead analysts to change their models for valuing our common stock. As a result, our stock price could decline rapidly and we could face costly securities class action suits or other unanticipated issues. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our operating results guidance. From time to time, we may release operating results guidance in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our management’s estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. Neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party will compile or examine the projections nor, accordingly, will any such person express any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. These projections will be based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, will be inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties 11 Table of Contents and contingencies, many of which will be beyond our control, and will also be based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We intend to state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which will be intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but will not be intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by analysts. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance will only be an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from our guidance, and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to consider these factors, not to rely exclusively upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock, and to take such guidance into consideration only in connection with our filings filed with or furnished to the SEC, including “Risk Factors” such as this one. Any failure to implement our operating strategy successfully or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth under “Risk Factors” in this report could result in our actual operating results being different from our guidance, and those differences might be adverse and material. If we are unable to generate significant volumes of sales leads from Internet search engines, marketing campaigns and traffic to our websites, then our revenue may not grow as expected or may decline. We generate many of our sales leads through visits to our websites by potential end-users interested in purchasing or downloading evaluations of our products. Many of these potential end-users find our websites by searching for enterprise IT management and monitoring products through Internet search engines, such as Yahoo! and Google. A critical factor in attracting potential customers to our websites is how prominently our websites are displayed in response to search inquiries. If we are listed less prominently or fail to appear in search result listings for any reason, visits to our websites by customers and potential customers could decline significantly. We may not be able to replace this traffic and, if we attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our sales and marketing expenses, which may not be offset by additional revenue and could adversely affect our operating results. We also generate leads through various marketing activities such as targeted email campaigns, attending networking-based trade shows and hosting webinars on enterprise IT management issues. Our marketing efforts may be unsuccessful in generating evaluation downloads, resulting in fewer sales leads. If we fail to generate a sufficient volume of leads from these activities and/or such sales leads do not result in actual sales as discussed below, our revenue may not grow as expected or could decrease and our operating results could suffer. If we are unable to sell products to new customers or to sell additional products to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected and our operating income could decrease. To increase our revenue, we must regularly add new customers and/or sell additional products to existing customers. Even if we generate a significant volume of leads from our marketing activities, we must be able to sell products to a sufficient number of these new sales leads in order to achieve our expected revenue growth. We expect to incur significant additional expenses in expanding our sales personnel and our international operations in order to convert leads into sales of our products. If we are unable to sell products to new customers and additional products to our existing customers as a result of these expenditures, we may be unable to grow our revenue and/or our operating results may be adversely affected. Current uncertain economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results. Recent market conditions have been and continue to be uncertain and challenging. While conditions seem to have improved in some respects, global economies have been in a recession as a result of a multitude of factors, including, but not limited to, declines in gross domestic product, increases in unemployment, turmoil in the credit 12 Table of Contents and financial markets and volatility in commodity prices and worldwide stock markets. During these challenging and uncertain economic times, customers may reduce or delay technology purchases, including purchases of our software products. Our typically short sales cycle may lengthen if purchasing decisions are delayed as a result of uncertain information technology budgets, contract negotiations become more protracted or customers institute additional internal approvals for software purchases. Uncertain and challenging economic conditions could result in reductions in sales of our products, longer sales cycles, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or delayed payments, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The ability to recruit, retain and develop key employees is critical to our success and growth, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our business requires certain expertise and intellectual capital, particularly within our management team. For us to compete successfully and grow, we must retain, recruit and develop key personnel who can provide the needed expertise for our industry and products. However, the market for qualified personnel is competitive and we may not succeed in recruiting additional key personnel or may fail to replace current key personnel effectively who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. On March 1, 2010, Michael S. Bennett will become Executive Chairman and no longer serve as our principal executive officer. Our current President and Chief Operating Officer, Kevin B. Thompson, will become our new Chief Executive Officer and Michael S. Berry will become our new Chief Financial Officer on that same date. While we believe that we have adequately planned for these changes, any failure to integrate this new leadership structure into our business could adversely affect our operating results. We may make additional changes to our senior management team or other key personnel in the future. We cannot provide assurances that key personnel, including our executive officers, will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on the Company. If we are not able to integrate Tek-Tools or any future acquisitions successfully, our operating results and prospects could be harmed. In January 2010, we acquired substantially all of the assets of Tek-Tools and have begun to integrate its operations. In addition, we acquired new technology, know-how and products of Neon Software, Inc., IPMonitor Corporation and Trilenium Investments Limited in 2007 and 2008. We expect to continue making acquisitions of these types and possibly larger acquisitions as well. The success of our future acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and any mergers and acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Our acquisition of Tek-Tools involves, and any mergers and acquisitions that we do in the future would involve, numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, technologies and products of the companies we acquire; • diversion of our management’s attention from normal daily operations of our business; • our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; • uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners of the companies we acquire; • insufficient revenue to offset our increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • our responsibility for the liabilities of the businesses we acquire; 13 Table of Contents • our inability to maintain internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • potential loss of key employees of the companies we acquire. Acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will likely experience ownership dilution, and if we finance future acquisitions with debt funding, we will incur interest expense and may have to comply with financing covenants or secure the debt obligation with our assets. Businesses that we acquire may have greater than expected liabilities for which we become responsible. Businesses that we acquire may have liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, that we fail to discover through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to the acquisition. For example, to the extent that any business that we acquire or any prior owners, employees or agents of any acquired businesses or properties: (i) failed to comply with or otherwise violated applicable laws, rules or regulations; (ii) failed to fulfill or disclose their obligations, contractual or otherwise, to applicable government authorities, their customers, suppliers or others; or (iii) incurred tax or other liabilities, we, as the successor owner, may be financially responsible for these violations and failures and may suffer harm to our reputation and otherwise be adversely affected. An acquired business may have problems with internal controls over financial reporting, which could be difficult for us to discover during our due diligence process and could in turn lead us to have significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our own internal controls over financial reporting. These and any other costs, liabilities and disruptions associated with any of our past acquisitions and any future acquisitions could harm our operating results. Our operating income could continue to decline as a percentage of revenue as we make further expenditures to expand our operations in order to support additional growth in our business. As a percentage of revenue, our operating income was 37.6%, 45.1% and 50.1% for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Since 2006, we have made significant investments in new financial and operating systems, hired substantial numbers of new sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative personnel, invested in new facilities and opened or acquired our operations outside the United States in order to expand our business. We intend to make additional investments in systems and personnel and to continue to expand our operations to support anticipated future growth in our business. We also expect to continue to incur additional operating costs as a public reporting company. As a result of these factors, our operating income could decline as a percentage of revenue relative to our prior annual periods. Our business depends on customers renewing their annual maintenance contracts. Any decline in maintenance renewals could harm our future operating results. We sell each of our products pursuant to a perpetual license, which ordinarily includes one year of maintenance as part of the initial price. Our customers have no obligation to renew their maintenance agreements after the expiration of this initial period. We may be unable to predict future customer renewal rates accurately. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our products, the prices of our products, the prices of products and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their maintenance arrangements or if they renew them on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. A substantial portion of our quarterly maintenance revenue is attributable to maintenance agreements entered into during previous quarters. As a result, if there is a decline in renewed maintenance agreements in any one quarter, only a small portion of the decline will be reflected in our maintenance revenue recognized in that quarter and the rest will be reflected in our maintenance revenue recognized in the following four quarters or more. 14 Table of Contents Failure to expand our sales operations effectively could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our products. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our products will depend on our ability to expand our sales operations effectively. We are substantially dependent on our direct inside sales force, and to a significantly lesser extent certain resellers and distributors, to obtain new customers. We plan to continue to expand our direct inside sales force both domestically and internationally. Our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of direct inside sales personnel, and on the productivity of those personnel. Our recent and planned personnel additions may not become as productive as we would like, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do or plan to do business. Our operating results will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. If we are unable to enhance existing products, particularly our Orion family of products, or to develop or acquire new products that respond to rapidly changing customer requirements, technological developments or evolving industry standards, our long-term revenue growth will be harmed. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. Our long-term growth depends on our ability to enhance and improve our existing products and to introduce or acquire new products that respond to these demands. The success of any enhancement or new product depends on a number of factors, including its timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. New products that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Additionally, our existing and prospective customers may develop their own competing technologies, purchase competitive products or services or engage third-party providers. If we are unable to develop or acquire enhancements to, and new features for, our existing products or acceptable new products that keep pace with rapid technological developments, our products may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive, and our business will be harmed. In 2008, we opened a facility in the Czech Republic for research and development activities and have expanded that facility rapidly. In connection with our acquisition of Tek-Tools in January 2010, we acquired a research and development facility in India. We also outsource a portion of the coding and testing of our products and product enhancements to two Eastern European contract development vendors. We believe that performing research and development in our facility in the Czech Republic and India and supplementing these activities with our contract development vendors enhance the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our product development. If we experience problems with our workforce or facilities in the Czech Republic or India, we may not be able to develop new products or enhance existing products in an alternate manner that may be equally or less efficient and cost-effective. We depend significantly on our Orion family of products, which are our enterprise-class network and IT management products. Our Orion family of products represented a substantial majority of our revenue in 2009, 2008 and 2007. If we are unable to add products and develop enhancements to our Orion family that are satisfactory to our customers, or if our customers purchase or develop their own competing products and technologies causing a reduction in demand for our Orion family of products, our operating results will be harmed. We depend on the U.S. federal government for a meaningful portion of our sales and orders from the U.S. federal government are unpredictable. The delay or loss of these sales may harm our operating results. A meaningful portion of our sales are to a number of different departments of the U.S. federal government. Any factors that cause a decline in government expenditures generally or government IT expenditures in particular could cause our revenue to grow less rapidly or even to decline. Furthermore, sales orders from the 15 Table of Contents U.S. federal government tend to be dependent on many factors and therefore unpredictable in timing. Any sales we expect to make in a fiscal quarter may not be made in that quarter or at all, and our operating results for that quarter may therefore be adversely affected. Because our long-term success depends on our ability to increase sales of our products to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We have international operations in the Republic of Ireland, the Czech Republic, India, Singapore and New Zealand, all of which we established or acquired within the past three years. Our limited experience in operating our business outside the United States increases the risk that our current and future international expansion efforts may not be successful. In particular, our business model may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the United States for reasons that we currently are unable to anticipate. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These include: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • difficulties in managing the staffing of international operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; • dependence on resellers and distributors to increase customer acquisition; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad; • terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our financial condition and operating results might suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness and integrity of our brand in a cost-effective manner are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and are important elements in attracting new customers. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful products at competitive prices. We intend to increase our expenditures on brand promotion. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. We also rely on our customer base and community of end-users in a variety of ways, including to give us feedback on our products and to provide user-based support to our other customers. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully or to maintain loyalty among our customers and our end-user community, or we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. 16 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers. The market for enterprise IT management solutions is intensely competitive. Competition in our market is based primarily on level of difficulty in using, maintaining and installing solutions; total cost of ownership, including product price and implementation and support costs; professional services implementation; product performance, functionality, flexibility, scalability and interoperability; brand and reputation; distribution channels; vertical markets or industries; and financial resources of the vendor. We often compete to sell our products against existing products or systems that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to install. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, more comprehensive and varied products and services, and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. Given their larger size, greater resources and existing customer relationships, our competitors may be able to compete and respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. We face competition from both traditional, larger software vendors offering enterprise-wide software frameworks and services and smaller companies offering point solutions for network or storage management. We also compete with network equipment vendors and systems management product providers whose products and services also address network and IT management requirements. Our principal competitors vary depending on the product we offer and include Hewlett Packard, IBM, CA, EMC, NetApp and several smaller vendors. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into strategic relationships with one another to offer a more comprehensive product than they individually had offered. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships or are acquired. Companies and alliances resulting from these possible consolidations and partnerships may create more compelling product offerings and be able to offer more attractive pricing, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer. We have substantially expanded our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations since 2006 both domestically and internationally. We made substantial investments in our information systems and significantly expanded our operations outside the United States, including the establishment of our international headquarters in Ireland, a development center in the Czech Republic and sales and support operations in Singapore. We also acquired development personnel in New Zealand in 2008 and in India in 2010. We increased the number of our customers, which we define as individuals or entities, including distributors or resellers, that have purchased one or more of our products under a unique customer identification number since our inception in 1999, from over 28,000 customers as of June 30, 2006 to over 90,000 customers as of December 31, 2009. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, our operating results will suffer. We rely on third parties for financial and operational services essential to our ability to manage our business. A failure or disruption in these services would materially and adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively. Currently, we use NetSuite to manage our order management and financial processes, salesforce.com to track our sales and marketing efforts and Eloqua to manage our online marketing efforts. We believe the availability of these services is particularly essential to the management of our high-volume, transaction-oriented 17 Table of Contents business model. As we expand our operations and sales efforts, we expect to utilize additional systems and service providers that may also be essential to managing our business. Although the systems and services that we require are typically available from a number of providers, it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement these relationships. Therefore, if one or more of our providers suffer an interruption in their business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in their operations, or we have to change or add additional systems and services, our ability to manage our business would suffer. Material defects or errors in our products could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our products. Software products are inherently complex and often contain defects and errors when first introduced. Any defects in our products could result in: • lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products; • a reduction in maintenance renewals; • diversion of development resources; and • injury to our reputation and our brand. The costs incurred in correcting or remediating the impact of defects or errors in our products may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. If a third party asserts that we are infringing its intellectual property, we could be subjected to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business might be harmed. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and from time to time may receive, letters claiming that our products infringe or may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, and these patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, might deter future customers from acquiring our products or could expose us to litigation with respect to these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in that litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named as a party. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, and divert management resources and attention. As a result of any successful intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we might have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, which could prevent us from offering our products to our customers. We could also have to seek a license for the technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms, might significantly increase our cost of revenue or might require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. The technology also might not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we could also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of our past and any future acquisitions as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. 18 Table of Contents The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade dress, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection. We currently have no patents, and no patents may issue with respect to our current patent applications. Any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are available over the Internet. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investor views of us. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “Sarbanes-Oxley Act”), which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing this assessment. Both we and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls in connection with the audit of our financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2010 and, as part of that testing, identifying areas for further attention and improvement. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, harm our ability to operate our business and reduce the trading price of our stock. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way in which we conduct our business. Our costs and demands upon management may continue to increase as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could harm our operating results. We became a public company on May 19, 2009 and have incurred significant legal, accounting, investor relations and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We also have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with current 19 Table of Contents corporate governance requirements, including requirements under Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have increased dramatically over the past several years. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs substantially and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are unable currently to estimate these future costs with any degree of certainty. As a public company, it has been and will continue to be more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance than as a private company. We may be subject to regulation of our advertising and customer solicitation or to other newly adopted laws and regulations, which could harm our business. As part of our product download process and during our sales process, most of our customers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. However, we may be subject to restrictions on our ability to communicate with these customers through email and phone calls. Several jurisdictions have proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or “spam.” These laws may impose significant monetary penalties for violations and complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. Depending on how they are interpreted, these laws may impose burdens on our email marketing practices. If any of those challenges is successful, our business may become subject to state laws and regulations that further restrict our email marketing practices. The scope of those regulations is unpredictable. Compliance with laws and regulations of different jurisdictions imposing different standards and requirements is very burdensome for businesses like ours. We offer products to customers in multiple states and foreign jurisdictions. Our business efficiencies and economies of scale depend on generally uniform product offerings and uniform treatment of customers across all jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance requirements that vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction impose an added cost to our business and increased liability for compliance deficiencies. In addition, laws or regulations that could harm our business could be adopted, or reinterpreted so as to affect our activities, by the U.S. government, state governments, regulatory agencies or by foreign governments or agencies. Violations or new interpretations of these laws or regulations may result in penalties or damage our reputation or could increase our costs or make our products less attractive. If we fail to protect confidential information against security breaches, or if our customers or potential customers are reluctant to use our websites because of privacy concerns, we might face additional costs and activity in our websites could decline. Some of our customers pay for our products with credit cards. During the purchasing process and in connection with evaluations of our software, either we or third-party providers collect and use personally identifiable information, such as credit card numbers, email addresses and phone numbers. This information could be compromised or accessed as a result of misappropriation or security breaches, and we could be subject to liability as a result. Our policies concerning the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information are described on our websites. We could be subject to legal claims, government action or harm to our reputation if we or our third-party service providers fail to comply or are seen as failing to comply with our policies concerning personally identifiable information or if our policies are inadequate. Concern among prospective customers regarding our use of personal information collected on our websites could keep prospective customers from purchasing our products. Our servers and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to computer viruses or physical or electronic break-ins. Industry-wide incidents or incidents with respect to our specific websites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws, could deter people from using the Internet or our websites to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents The laws of some states and countries require businesses that maintain personal information about their residents in electronic databases to implement reasonable measures to keep that information secure. In addition, under the laws of some states and countries, if there is a breach of our computer systems and we know or suspect that unencrypted personal customer information has been stolen, we are required to inform any customers whose information was stolen, which could harm our reputation and business. Other states and countries have enacted different and often contradictory requirements for protecting personal information collected and maintained electronically. Compliance with numerous and contradictory requirements of the different states and countries is particularly difficult for an online business such as ours that collects personal information from customers in multiple jurisdictions. Failure to comply with these laws could result in legal liability. In addition, we could suffer adverse publicity and loss of consumer confidence were it known that we did not take adequate measures to assure the confidentiality of the personally identifiable information that our customers had given to us. This could result in a loss of customers and revenue that could jeopardize our success. We may not be successful in avoiding potential liability or disruption of business resulting from the failure to comply with these laws. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under these new laws, or any similar laws enacted by other jurisdictions, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any of these laws, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. Our business and financial performance could be negatively impacted by changes in tax laws or regulations. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time. On February 1, 2010, the United States Department of the Treasury released the General Explanations of the Administration’s Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Proposals that contains a high-level outline of international tax proposals for fiscal year 2011. These proposals and other such enactments could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. If we raise our product and maintenance prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing customers may elect not to renew their maintenance arrangements and potential customers may elect not to purchase our products. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers’ and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our products. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Our results of operations benefit from the tax credit incentives under the U.S. research and experimentation tax credit extended to taxpayers engaged in qualified research and experimental activities while carrying on a trade or business. The tax credit expired on December 31, 2009, and may not be renewed, or if renewed, it may be renewed on terms significantly less favorable than current tax incentives or on terms resulting in our disqualification from the benefits of the tax credit. The elimination or significant reduction in the tax credit would increase our effective tax rate and would adversely affect our results of operations. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our products. In addition, taxation of products and services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing 21 Table of Contents greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services and product offerings, which could harm our business and operating results. Our debt obligations contain restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $44.1 million of outstanding indebtedness under our December 2005 credit facilities, and our interest expense in 2009, 2008 and 2007 was approximately $4.3 million, $8.5 million and $10.2 million, respectively. Our credit facilities contain various affirmative, negative and financial covenants that will continue to be operative so long as our credit facilities remain outstanding. In addition, we are required under each of our credit facilities to continue to comply with an interest coverage ratio and a leverage ratio. Further, the obligations under our credit facilities will continue to be subject to mandatory prepayment in certain circumstances, including upon certain asset sales or receipt of condemnation proceeds, upon certain issuances of equity securities or debt, and, in the case of our senior credit facility, annually, with a portion of our excess cash flow. While we currently have adequate cash and cash equivalents to pay the outstanding indebtedness and expect to do so if any of the covenants affect our ability to do business, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise maintain or obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under our credit facilities. Furthermore, any such payment would reduce our cash and cash equivalents and may limit our ability to take advantage of mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to our business. Even if our credit facilities are terminated, any additional debt that we incur in the future could subject us to similar or additional covenants. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the factors described in this “Risk Factors” section or otherwise, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuations of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes and international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have become subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Our stock price could decline due to the large number of outstanding shares of our common stock eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. As of December 31, 2009, we had 66,502,098 shares outstanding. Approximately 37.4 million shares, or approximately 56.2% of our outstanding shares at that date, are subject to lock-up agreements entered into by our directors, executive officers, and stockholders with the underwriters in connection with our secondary public 22 Table of Contents offering in November 2009. Upon expiration of the lock-up period, which will occur on or around February 26, 2010, approximately 3.1 million additional shares of common stock may be eligible for sale in the public market without restriction, and up to approximately 34.3 million shares of common stock (excluding shares issuable upon the exercise of vested options that would be subject to this lock up), held by affiliates may become eligible for sale, subject to the restrictions under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. Holders of approximately 35.6 million shares of common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009 will be entitled to rights with respect to the registration of shares under the Securities Act. If we register their shares of common stock following the expiration of the lock-up agreements, these stockholders could sell those shares in the public market without being subject to the volume and other restrictions of Rule 144. In addition, approximately 7.3 million shares are available upon the exercise of outstanding vested options as of December 31, 2009. Approximately 5.3 million of these shares are subject to lock-up agreements and will be eligible for sale upon the exercise of these vested options after the expiration of the lock-up period on February 26, 2010. We can issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the rights of common stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation permits us to establish the rights, privileges, preferences, and restrictions, including voting rights, of future series of our preferred stock and to issue such stock without approval from our stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock may suffer as a result of the rights granted to holders of preferred stock that we may issue in the future. In addition, we could issue preferred stock to prevent a change in control of us, depriving common stockholders of an opportunity to sell their stock at a price in excess of the prevailing market price. Our charter documents and Delaware law could prevent a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also reduce the market price of our stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. These provisions could also make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms; • not providing for cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the board to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with rights senior to those of our common stock; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and • requiring advance notification of stockholder nominations and proposals. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts, reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock and result in the market price of our common stock being lower than it would be without these provisions. If securities analysts do not continue to publish research or reports about our business or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. We believe that the trading price for our common stock will be affected by research or reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who may elect to cover us downgrade their evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market for our stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. 23 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have neither declared nor paid any cash dividends on our common stock, although we did make an earnout payment of $20.0 million to entities affiliated with our original stockholders in November 2009 that was treated as a dividend payment pursuant to applicable accounting rules. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 