Item 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual operating results to differ materially from those indicated or suggested by forward-looking statements made in this Form 10-K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. 8 We cannot be certain of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The Company currently has severely limited capital resources and has incurred significant historical losses and negative cash flows from operations. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 we incurred a net loss of approximately $13.4 million, had cash outflows from operations of approximately $1.6 million and we expect to continue to generate significant losses and cash outflows from operations in the future. In addition, as of June 30, 2010 we have a working capital deficit of approximately $26.6 million. All of our approximately $15 million of outstanding debt instruments are either past due, due on demand or due with in the next 12 months, and the Company does not currently have the resources to pay such instruments. We currently have no active trade or business that will generate revenues and therefore the Company will need to raise additional capital to finance its obligations under the NASA SAA agreements and repay its existing debts. There can be no assurances that the Company can raise additional funds or such funds will be available on terms acceptable to the Company. Failure to raise additional funds in the near term could have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and to achieve its business objectives. We currently have no operating trade or business and may never reach profitability In 2009 we ended our relationships with our only customers, Hyundai and Apro, and exited the security surveillance business. At that time and through June 30, 2010, we had no business with which to replace the business we ceased. Currently our operations consist of an R&D partnership with NASA in which we are attempting to develop new technologies in which to commercialize. To date, we have yet to commercialize any of the products or technologies that are the subject of our partnership with NASA, nor are we certain of when or if we will be able to successfully produce a technology which we could commercialize. We therefore cannot guarantee that we will ever develop a functional operating business and even should we be able to develop and commercialize a product in partnership with NASA, we cannot guarantee that that product will be profitable. We therefore may never reach profitability. We may be unable to continue our partnership with NASA Our agreements with NASA require that we make substantial payments on a defined schedule to enable NASA to adequately budget and provide for the research and development work necessary under our SAA agreements. As of June 30, 2010, we currently are past due in making scheduled payments under both SAA agreements, in the amount of approximately $1 million. To date NASA has accommodated our inability to make payments on schedule, however, NASA is under no contractual obligation to continue to do so and in the event that we continue to be late making scheduled payments, NASA at any point could terminate our SAA contracts, which would include a termination of our license to any technology under the SAA agreements and also could entail NASA no longer pursuing any further business with us. We are running out of authorized shares our common stock We have authorized capital of 100,000,000 shares of our common stock. At June 30, 2010 we had 73,674,371 shares issued or issuable. In addition at June 30, 2010 we had consulting agreements outstanding in which we committed to issuing a further 9,800,000 shares shortly after June 30, 2010. Because the Company does not currently have an operating business, we are dependent upon our common stock and instruments convertible into our common stock to act as our currency. We use our common stock and instruments convertible into it to compensate our consultants, to incentivize our debt holders to act in our best interest and sometimes to pay our employees. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 we issued 37.26 million shares and warrants for a further 1.2 million shares to consultants, issued 9.5 million shares under the Enable Exchange Agreement and issued approximately 1.6 million shares to entice lenders to lend to us or to forebear enforcement of default provisions against us. Should we be unable to convince our stockholders to increase our authorized share capital, we could face significant problems in the upcoming fiscal year retaining and compensating our consultants, maintaining good working relationships with our current lenders and obtaining access to financing. We also have instruments outstanding, in the form of convertible debt, warrants and options, which if converted would require us to issue approximately 99 million more shares which exceeds our current number of authorized shares. Should a significant holder(s) of these instruments decide to exercise their instruments, we may be unable to accommodate them and face significant monetary penalties for failure to deliver the underlying common shares. 9 We compete against entities that have significantly greater name recognition and resources than we do, that may be able to respond to changes in customer requirements more quickly than we can and that are able to allocate greater resources to the marketing of their products. The security industry is highly competitive and has become more so over the last several years as security issues and concerns have become a primary consideration at both government and private facilities worldwide. Competition is intense among a wide ranging and fragmented group of product and service providers, including security equipment manufacturers, providers of integrated security systems, systems integrators, consulting firms and engineering and design firms and others that provide individual elements of a system, some of which are larger than us and possess significantly greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because of the financial and personnel resources they possess. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to distinguish ourselves in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and required customer specifications. Due to the constant changes in our markets, our future success depends on our ability to improve our manufacturing processes, improve existing products and develop new products. The commercialization of new products involves substantial expenditures in research and development, production and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in achieving certain research, development and engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if: we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis; our new products are not introduced on a timely basis; we incur budget overruns or delays in our research and development efforts; or our new products experience reliability or quality problems. The focus of our key management staff may be diverted by efforts in the legal actions against Apro, Huyndai and others. The Company has recently engaged legal representation and has filed suit against Apro, Hyundai and certain other entities and individuals in an effort to recover damages to MSGI resulting from the alleged actions by these companies and individuals. In this effort, the management staff may be placed in a situation where its attention is diverted from development and commercialization efforts with NASA to the requirements of these legal proceedings. Our services and reputation may be adversely affected by product defects or inadequate performance. Management believes that we will offer state-of-the art products that are reliable and competitively priced. In the event that our products do not perform to specifications or are defective in any way, our reputation may be materially adversely affected and we may suffer a loss of business and a corresponding loss in revenues. If we are unable to retain key executives or hire new qualified personnel, our business will be adversely affected. We rely on our officers and key employees and their expertise. The loss of the services of any of these individuals may materially and adversely affect our ability to pursue our current business strategy. Our relationship with NASA may not develop as we have expected, which may cause the Company to lose all or a portion of our investment. Our collaboration with NASA may be jeopardized if we have difficulty in assimilating the personnel, operations, technology and software with our newly formed subsidiaries. In addition, the key personnel of NASA or other potential partners may decide to leave their respective companies and positions. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. 10 We may face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, including whether such transactions can be located, completed and the other party integrated with our business on favorable terms. Although the Company continues to devote significant efforts to improving its current operations and profitability, the success of the Company's business strategy may depend upon the acquisition of complimentary businesses. No assurances can be made that the Company will be successful in identifying and acquiring such businesses or that any such acquisitions, if consummated, will result in operating profits. In addition, any additional equity financing required in connection with such acquisitions may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing may impose substantial additional restrictions on the Company's ability to operate and raise capital. In addition, the negotiation of potential acquisitions may require management to divert its time and resources away from the Company's operations. The Company periodically evaluates potential acquisition opportunities, particularly those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: the focus of management's attention on the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations; the incorporation of acquired businesses into the Company's service line and methodologies; the increasing demands on the Company's operational systems; adverse effects on the Company's reported operating results; the amortization of acquired intangible assets; and the loss of key employees and the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image. We may have problems raising money we need in the future. We will require additional capital, especially in light of our recent business developments. We may, from time to time, seek additional funding through public or private financing, including debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that adequate funding will be available as needed or, if it is available, that it will be on acceptable terms. If additional financing is required, the terms of the financing may be adverse to the interests of existing stockholders, including the possibility of substantially diluting their ownership position. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. These requirements necessitate that the Company have adequate accounting and internal audit staffing in order to ensure that compliance is achieved and maintained. The Company does not currently have any dedicated internal audit staff and current internal audit capabilities are limited. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, or engage appropriate consulting services in order to reach and maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. We may have errors in our Form 10-K The Company’s review of its internal control over financial reporting identified material weaknesses. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 11 The price of our stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, experiencing wide fluctuations. Such fluctuations may be triggered by: differences between our actual or forecasted operating results and the expectations of securities analysts and investors; announcements regarding our products, services or technologies; announcements regarding the products, services or technologies of our competitors; developments relating to our patents or proprietary rights; specific conditions affecting the electronic surveillance industry; sales of our common stock into the public market; general market conditions; and other factors. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which have particularly impacted the market prices of equity securities. Some of these fluctuations appear unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of many companies. Future market movements may adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect such rights under applicable patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. We seek to protect the intellectual property rights underlying our products and services by filing applications and registrations, as appropriate, and through our agreements with our employees, suppliers, customers and partners. However, the measures we have adopted to protect our intellectual property rights may not prevent infringement or misappropriation of our technology or trade secrets. A further risk is introduced by the fact that many legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of certain proprietary rights in the context of the Internet industry currently are not resolved. Historically, we have licensed certain components of our products and services from third parties. Our failure to maintain such licenses, or to find replacement products or services in a timely and cost effective manner, may damage our business and results of operations. Although we believe our products and information systems do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we expect to continue to be, subject to claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of our alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims could damage our business and results of operations by: subjecting us to significant liability for damages; resulting in invalidation of our proprietary rights; being time-consuming and expensive to defend even if such claims are not meritorious; and resulting in the diversion of management time and attention. Even if we prevail with respect to the claims, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention. Any claims from third parties also may result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making such claims. 12 There is a limited market for “penny stocks” such as our common stock. Our common stock is considered a “penny stock” because, among other things, its trading price is below $5.00 per share. This designation requires any broker or dealer selling these securities to disclose certain information concerning the transaction, obtain a written agreement from the purchaser and determine that the purchaser is reasonably suitable to purchase the securities. These rules may restrict the ability of brokers or dealers to sell our common stock and may affect the ability of investors to sell their shares. In addition, since our common stock has been traded on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, investors may find it difficult to obtain accurate quotations of our common stock and may experience a lack of buyers to purchase such stock or a lack of market makers to support the stock price. Being a penny stock also could limit the liquidity of our common stock and limit the coverage of our stock by analysts. Future sales of our shares could adversely affect its stock price. As of October 31, 2010, there were 82,424,371 shares of our common stock outstanding, of which approximately 75,114,000 shares are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act or are eligible for sale in the public market without regard to the availability of current public information, volume limitations, manner of sale restrictions, or notice requirement under Rule 144(k), and does not include any shares held by or purchased from persons deemed to be our "affiliates" which are subject to certain resale limitations pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The remaining shares of common stock outstanding are eligible for sale pursuant to rule 144 under the Securities Act. Since June 30, 2010, the Company has issued 8,750,000 shares of common stock, all of which were issued to a variety of service providers for services rendered or to be rendered. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments N/A 