Item 1A. Risk Factors We cannot be certain of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern. The Company has limited capital resources and has incurred significant historical losses and negative cash flows from operations. The company is also in default of its note payable obligations. The Company believes that funds on hand and funds available from its remaining operations are not adequate to finance its operations and capital expenditure requirements for the next twelve months. The Company has recently engaged an investment banker to assist in the private placement sale of shares of Common Stock and preferred stock, debt, or other combinations thereof. We are also engaged in discussions with a New York based homeland security firm of a strategic transaction. This firm has provided us $1 million of advances to date. There can be no assurances additional funds can be raised, strategic transactions consummated and advances do not have to be repaid. In addition, the Company has instituted cost reduction measures, including the reduction of workforce and corporate overhead. Failure of the operations or failure to raise additional financing to generate such sufficient future cash flow will have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern and to achieve its business objectives. There is a risk of dilution from the exercise of existing options and warrants, or the conversion of outstanding notes and preferred stock, which may lead to potential difficulty in obtaining additional equity capital. Our common stock may become diluted if warrants and options to purchase our common stock are exercised, or outstanding convertible notes and preferred stock is converted into common stock. These shares, as well as the eligibility for additional restricted shares to be sold in the future, either pursuant to future registrations under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or an exemption such as Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, may have a dilutive effect on the market for the price of our common stock. The terms upon which we will be able to obtain additional equity capital could also be adversely affected. In addition, the sale of common stock offered by this prospectus, or merely the possibility that these sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. We compete against entities that have significantly greater name recognition and resources than we do, that may be able to respond to changes in customer requirements more quickly than we can and that are able to allocate greater resources to the marketing of their products. The security industry is highly competitive and has become more so over the last several years as security issues and concerns have become a primary consideration at both government and private facilities worldwide. Competition is intense among a wide ranging and fragmented group of product and service providers, including security equipment manufacturers, providers of integrated security systems, systems integrators, consulting firms and engineering and design firms and others that provide individual elements of a system, some of which are larger than us and possess significantly greater name recognition, assets, personnel, sales and financial resources. These entities may be able to respond more quickly to changing market conditions by developing new products that meet customer requirements or are otherwise superior to our products and may be able to more effectively market their products than we can because of the financial and personnel resources they possess. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to distinguish our self in a competitive market. To the extent that we are unable to successfully compete against existing and future competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. 12 We are dependent on third party suppliers for principal components used in our products, and disruptions in supply or significant increases in component costs could materially harm our business. We rely on third parties to supply several key components utilized in the manufacture and implementation of our products and services. Our reliance on suppliers involves certain risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components, price increases, timely delivery and component quality. Although to date, we have not experienced any disruption in supplies of components, we cannot assure you that there will not be a disruption of our supplies in the future. Disruption or termination of the supply of these components could delay shipments of products and could have a material adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and continuous improvements in products and required customer specifications. Due to the constant changes in our markets, our future success depends on our ability to improve our manufacturing processes, improve existing products and develop new products. The commercialization of new products involves substantial expenditures in research and development, production and marketing. We may be unable to successfully design or manufacture these new products and may have difficulty penetrating new markets. Because it is generally not possible to predict the amount of time required and the costs involved in achieving certain research, development and engineering objectives, actual development costs may exceed budgeted amounts and estimated product development schedules may be extended. Our business may be materially and adversely affected if: · we are unable to improve our existing products on a timely basis; · our new products are not introduced on a timely basis; · we incur budget overruns or delays in our research and development efforts; or · our new products experience reliability or quality problems. All of our orders and contracts may be cancelled so there is a risk that our backlog may not be fulfilled. All of our orders and contracts are subject to cancellation by our customers at any time so we cannot be certain that our backlog will be fulfilled. Government contracts are often awarded prior to legislative approval of the funding to support those contracts. Consequently, the entire amount of orders and contracts may never be funded. Our services and reputation may be adversely affected by product defects or inadequate performance. Management believes that we offer state-of-the art products that are reliable and competitively priced. In the event that our products do not perform to specifications or are defective in any way, our reputation may be materially adversely affected and we may suffer a loss of business and a corresponding loss in revenues. Our sever liquidity concerns have caused us to not be able to fulfill existing orders, which could result in a loss of business and or reputation may be adversely affected. 13 If we are unable to retain key executives or hire new qualified personnel, our business will be adversely affected. We rely on our officers and key employees and their expertise. The current liquidity difficulties experienced by the Company have necessitated that many key employees temporarily defer their compensation. The loss of the services of any of these individuals may materially and adversely affect our ability to pursue our current business strategy. Our relationships with Excelsa may not develop as we have expected, which may cause the Company to lose all or a portion of our investment. Our investments in Excelsa may be jeopardized if we have difficulty in assimilating the personnel, operations, technology and software of Excelsa with our current subsidiaries. We may learn that the Excelsa business does not complement our current operations. In addition, the key personnel of Excelsa may decide to leave their respective companies. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Our investment in an international operation subjects us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could harm our operating results. Currently, we operate in the U.S. and recently began negotiations for potential business relationships with certain international concerns. Because of our limited experience with international operations, we are subject to additional risks related to our international expansion strategy, including risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally. Our international expansion plans may not be successful and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. We may face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, including whether such transactions can be located, completed and the other party integrated with our business on favorable terms. Although the Company continues to devote significant efforts to improving its current operations and profitability, the success of the Company's business strategy may depend upon the acquisition of complimentary businesses. We are in the process of formalizing a strategic relationship with a certain New York based homeland security firm. No assurances can be made that the Company will be successful in identifying and acquiring such businesses, or that any such acquisitions or strategic relationships, if consummated, will result in operating profits. In addition, any additional equity financing required in connection with such acquisitions may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing may impose substantial additional restrictions on the Company's ability to operate and raise capital. In addition, the negotiation of potential acquisitions may require management to divert its time and resources away from the Company's operations. The Company periodically evaluates potential acquisition opportunities, particularly those that could be material in size and scope. Acquisitions involve a number of special risks, including: · the focus of management's attention on the assimilation of the acquired companies and their employees and on the management of expanding operations; · the incorporation of acquired businesses into the Company's service line and methodologies; · the increasing demands on the Company's operational systems; · adverse effects on the Company's reported operating results; · the amortization of acquired intangible assets; and · the loss of key employees and the difficulty of presenting a unified corporate image. · financing the cost to acquire and ongoing operational needs 14 Exchange Rate Fluctuations We may operate in international markets, with customers, manufactures and supplies in the U.S. and abroad. Most of our pricing is in dollars, but some cost may be based on materials or labor cost priced in other currencies. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our expenses and results of operations. Fluctuations may adversely affect the comparability of period-to-period results. Although we may use hedging techniques in the future (which we currently do not use), we may not be able to eliminate the effects of currency fluctuations. Thus, exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and stock price. In addition, future currency losses may be incurred if we or our outsourcing partners become subject to exchange control regulations restricting the ability to convert local currencies into United States dollars or other currencies. We may have problems raising money we need in the future. We will require additional capital, especially in light of our most recent acquisitions and disposals. We may, from time to time, seek additional funding through public or private financing, including debt or equity financing. We cannot assure you that adequate funding will be available as needed or, if it is available, that it will be on acceptable terms. If additional financing is required, the terms of the financing may be adverse to the interests of existing stockholders, including the possibility of substantially diluting their ownership position. We need to be able to acquire and integrate companies and new product lines successfully to implement our growth strategy. Our growth strategy includes completing acquisitions that expand and complement our business. If we are unable to make these acquisitions, we may not be able to meet or exceed our historical levels of revenue growth and earnings. As a result, our stock price may be adversely affected. We may be unable to make acquisitions due to, among other reasons, these factors: · the companies we seek to acquire or invest in may demonstrate valuations that we deem excessive; · we may not be able to identify suitable companies to buy because many of the companies in the businesses we are evaluating are relatively small when compared to us; · we may not be able to raise funds in the future to finance future acquisitions. Future acquisitions only will succeed if we can effectively assess characteristics of potential target companies or product lines, such as: · financial condition and results of operations; · attractiveness of products; · suitability of distribution channels; and · management ability. We cannot assure you that we can identify attractive acquisition candidates or negotiate acceptable acquisition terms, and our failure to do so may adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to sustain growth. Completed acquisitions may give rise to a number of additional difficulties, including: · difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with the existing business; · diversion of management attention in connection with both negotiating the acquisitions and integrating the assets; 15 · strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; · potential issuance of securities in connection with the acquisition, which issuance lessens or dilutes the rights and values of currently outstanding securities; · incurrence of additional debt; · the write-off of in-process research and development of and other development costs; · the amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets; · loss of key personnel from acquired companies; · failure of an acquired business to achieve targeted financial results; and · unanticipated problems and liabilities of acquired companies. We may not be able to successfully address these problems. Our future operating results will depend to a significant degree on our ability to successfully manage growth and integrate acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing the Company through future acquisitions. Our ability to enact our growth strategy includes completing future financing or funding events. If we are unable to successfully complete such future financing or funding events, we may be unable to complete future acquisitions. The requirements of being a public company may strain our resources and distract management. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These requirements may place a strain on our systems and resources. The Securities Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls for financial reporting. These requirements necessitate that the Company have adequate accounting and internal audit staffing in order to ensure that compliance is achieved and maintained. The Company is required to be in compliance by the period ended June 30, 2008. The Company does not currently have any dedicated internal audit staff and several identified material weaknesses. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight will be required. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, or engage appropriate consulting services in order to reach and maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so in a timely fashion. We may not have an adequate number of Common or Preferred Shares authorized to enable us to complete transactions which may adversely affect our ability to grow and develop the Company. We may experience difficulties in securing shareholder approval for an increase in the number of authorized shares of either or both our Common Stock and Preferred Stock. This may affect our ability to be able to consummate future growth strategy acquisitions and business relationships. 16 We may experience variations from quarter to quarter in operating results and net income, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. We expect to experience significant fluctuations in future quarterly operating results. Quarterly fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, may cause future quarterly fluctuations, including: · new customer contracts which may require us to incur costs in periods prior to recognizing revenue under those contracts; · the effect of the change of business mix on profit margins; · the timing of additional selling, general and administrative expenses to support new business; · the costs and timing of the completion and integration of acquisitions, sales of assets and investments; · the timing of sales of assets; · the cyclical elements of our clients' industries; · the demand for our products and services; · the market acceptance of new products and services; · specific economic conditions in the electronic surveillance industry; and · general economic conditions. The anticipated quarterly fluctuations make predictions concerning our future revenues difficult. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicative of our future performance for any subsequent fiscal quarter or for a full fiscal year. It also is possible that in some future quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In such circumstances, the price of our common stock may decline. Because our sales tend to be concentrated among a small number of customers, our operating results may be subject to substantial fluctuations. Accordingly, our revenues and operating results for any particular quarter may not be indicative of our performance in future quarters, making it difficult for investors to evaluate our future prospects based on the results of any one quarter. Given the nature of our customers and products, we receive relatively large orders for products from a relatively small number of customers. Consequently, a single order from one customer may represent a substantial portion of our sales in any one period and significant orders by any customer during one period may not be followed by further orders from the same customer in subsequent periods. Our sales and operating results are subject to very substantial periodic variations. Since quarterly performance is likely to vary significantly, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that we might achieve for any subsequent period. Accordingly, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. The price of our stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, experiencing wide fluctuations. Such fluctuations may be triggered by: · differences between our actual or forecasted operating results and the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · announcements regarding our products, services or technologies; · announcements regarding the products, services or technologies of our competitors; · developments relating to our patents or proprietary rights; · specific conditions affecting the electronic surveillance industry; 17 · sales of our common stock into the public market; · general market conditions; and · other factors. In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which have particularly impacted the market prices of equity securities of many companies providing Internet-related products and services. Some of these fluctuations appear unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. Future market movements may adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Our success depends in part on our intellectual property rights and our ability to protect such rights under applicable patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. We seek to protect the intellectual property rights underlying our products and services by filing applications and registrations, as appropriate, and through our agreements with our employees, suppliers, customers and partners. However, the measures we have adopted to protect our intellectual property rights may not prevent infringement or misappropriation of our technology or trade secrets. A further risk is introduced by the fact that many legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of certain proprietary rights in the context of the Internet industry currently are not resolved. We license certain components of our products and services from third parties. Our failure to maintain such licenses, or to find replacement products or services in a timely and cost effective manner, may damage our business and results of operations. Although we believe our products and information systems do not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us. From time to time we have been, and we expect to continue to be, subject to claims in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of our alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any such claims could damage our business and results of operations by: · subjecting us to significant liability for damages; · resulting in invalidation of our proprietary rights; · being time-consuming and expensive to defend even if such claims are not meritorious; and · resulting in the diversion of management time and attention. Even if we prevail with respect to the claims, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, and could result in the diversion of our time and attention. Any claims from third parties also may result in limitations on our ability to use the intellectual property subject to these claims unless we are able to enter into agreements with the third parties making such claims. Our ability to maintain our listing on the Nasdaq stock market may be in question. On July 11, 2006, the Company received a determination from the Listing Qualifications Staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. indicating that, based upon the Company’s non-compliance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(2)(B), which requires the Company to evidence a minimum of $2,500,000 in stockholders' equity, $35,000,000 in market value of listed securities, or $500,000 in net income from continuing operations for t\he most recently completed fiscal year or two of the three most recently completed fiscal years, the Company's securities are subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Stock Market. As announced on May 26, 2006, the Company timely submitted its plan to evidence compliance with the $2.5 million shareholders' equity requirement to the Listing Qualifications Staff on June 7, 2006. However, by letter dated July 11, 2006, the Nasdaq Staff indicated that it had denied the Company’s request for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market. As a result, the Company held a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel, which effectively stayed the Nasdaq Staff’s determination to delist the Company’s securities pending issuance of a formal determination by the Panel regarding the Company’ request for continued listing. 18 Our ability to use our net operating losses may be limited in future periods, which would increase our tax liability. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, utilization of prior net operating losses is limited after an ownership change, as defined in Section 382, to an annual amount equal to the value of the Company’s outstanding stock immediately before the date of the ownership change multiplied by the long-term tax exempt rate. In the event that a change of control were to happen and in the event we achieve profitable operations, any significant limitation on the utilization of net operating losses would have the effect of increasing our tax liability and reducing after tax net income and available cash reserves. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our Preferred or Common Stock. We do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our preferred or common stock for the foreseeable future. In addition, we cannot assure you that our operations will generate sufficient revenues to enable us to declare or pay cash dividends. We have not paid cash dividends on any of our capital stock in at least the last six years. The Preferred Series F Stock has a stated dividend rate, which, since dividends have not been declared and paid, increases the liquidation preference of such shares. It is anticipated that future earnings, if any, will be used to finance our future growth. Our ability to issue "blank check" preferred stock and certain other provisions of our certificate of incorporation could prevent or delay takeovers. Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock (that is, preferred stock which our board of directors can create and issue without prior stockholder approval) with rights senior to those of our common stock. Furthermore, we have a staggered board of directors. These provisions, together with certain provisions of Nevada law limiting the voting rights of an acquirer of a controlling interest in a Nevada corporation (such as ourselves), as well as restrictions on certain business combinations (including certain mergers and exchanges), could delay or impede a merger, tender offer or other transaction resulting in a change in control, even if such a transaction would have significant benefits to our stockholders. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Management has discretion over the use of proceeds. Management has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from the exercise of options and warrants. We may use the proceeds in ways that do not improve our operating results or the market value of our securities. We have significant flexibility as to the timing and the use of the proceeds. You will rely on our judgment with only limited information about our specific intentions regarding the use of proceeds. We may spend most of the net proceeds received from the exercise of warrants in ways with which you may not agree. If we fail to apply these funds effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our securities may trade below the offering price. The offering price per share of our securities registered in this Registration Statement has been determined through negotiations between the Selling Stockholder and the purchasers and does not necessarily relate to any established criteria of value. We cannot assure you that the trading price of our securities will equal or exceed the offering price. The trading price of our common stock has experienced fluctuation in the past and may continue to do so in the future. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for the stock of technology companies. These fluctuations have often been unrelated to or disproportionately affected by the operating performance of these companies. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly after this registration in response to a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. These factors may include one or more of the following: · quarterly operating results falling below or exceeding analysts' or investors' expectations in any given period; 19 · changes in financial estimates or investment recommendations by securities analysts following our business; · changes in market valuations of, or earnings and other announcements by, our competitors; · announcements by our competitors of new technological innovations, service offerings, contracts, acquisitions or strategic relationships; · departures of key personnel; and · changes in business or regulatory conditions. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were to be involved in securities litigation, we could incur a substantial cost and experience diversion of resources and the attention of management away from our business. We cannot predict the future performance of the capital markets in general and the technology stocks in particular, and we cannot assure you that the price for our common stock will not drop significantly subsequent to this offering, whether related to our business or to the capital markets generally. Our investment in AONet International S.r.L. was forfeited. We had spent a significant amount of money and management effort in acquiring and owning 51% of AONet. We continue to be involved in discussions with the owners of AONet, although it is uncertain if any positive outcomes may occur, however, this activity may continue to be a significant distraction of management’s attention. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 