D. Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully all of the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 20-F before making a decision to invest in our securities. 1 Risks Associated with our Business We are a development stage company with no operating history and no revenues, and you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective. We are a development stage company with no operating results. Because we lack an operating history, you have no basis on which to evaluate our ability to achieve our business objective of completing a business combination with one or more target businesses. We have no definitive plans, arrangements or understandings with any prospective target businesses concerning a business combination and may be unable to complete a business combination. We will not generate any revenues from operations (other than interest income from the proceeds from our initial public offering) until after completing a business combination. We may not be able to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in which case, we would dissolve and liquidate our assets. In addition, our negotiating position and the terms on which we may effect a business combination can be expected to become less favorable as we approach our 24 month deadline or our 36 month deadline, in the event the extended period is approved. Under our amended and restated articles of association, we must complete a business combination with a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance of the trust account at the time of the business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,191,749) within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period, or, if extended pursuant to a shareholder vote as described under “Proposed Business — Extension of Time to Complete a Business Combination to 36 Months,” within 36 months from the date of our initial public offering). However, during the extended period, we may consummate a business combination that is different from the originally proposed business combination pursuant to which such letter of intent, agreement in principle or definitive agreement was executed. We may not be able to find suitable target businesses within the required time frame. In addition, our negotiating position and our ability to conduct adequate due diligence on any potential target may be reduced as we approach the deadline for the consummation of a business combination, as our counterparty will be aware of our approaching timing deadlines amended and restated. If we fail to consummate a business combination within the required time frame, in accordance with our articles of association, we will be required to dissolve, liquidate and wind up. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain Securities and Exchange Commission requirements that provide shareholders the protection of information that must be made available to shareholders of United States public companies, including with respect to our business combination. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of the rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to United States public companies including: • the rules requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; • the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations with respect to a security registered under the Exchange Act; • provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and • the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their share ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short swing” trading transactions (i.e., a purchase and sale, or a sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). Because of these exemptions, our shareholders will not be afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. In particular, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules under the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements. Because of this exemption, at the time we seek approval from our shareholders of our initial business combination or an extension of the time to complete a business combination, it is our expectation that we will not file with the SEC preliminary proxy solicitation materials regarding our business combination, but will rather prepare and mail proxy solicitation materials in accordance with Cayman Islands law and, as required, file such materials with the SEC after mailing. Although we anticipate that such materials will contain many of the same disclosures as proxy materials prepared in conformance with the SEC’s proxy rules, investors are cautioned that such materials will not have been reviewed by the SEC and may not have all of the material disclosures required under such rules. 2 Certain provisions contained in our memorandum and articles of association may be amended by the vote of our board of directors and the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the voting power of our shareholders. This could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our shareholders by such provisions. Our memorandum and articles of association contain certain requirements and restrictions relating to our initial public offering that will apply to us until the consummation of our initial business combination. Specifically, our memorandum and articles of association provides, among other things, that: • if we have entered into a letter of intent or definitive agreement with respect to a business combination within 18 months of the consummation of our initial public offering, and we anticipate that we may not be able to consummate a business combination within 24 months, we may seek shareholder approval to extend the period of time to consummate a business combination by an additional 12 months. In such case, we will present such proposal to our shareholders. In order to approve the extended period, we must receive shareholder approval of a majority of our ordinary shares voted by our public shareholders and public shareholders owning less than 35.0% of the ordinary shares purchased by the public shareholders in our initial public offering both vote against the extended period and exercise their redemption rights; • if we do not enter into a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering, or if the holders of 35.0% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering vote against the proposed extension beyond 24 months to 36 months and elect to redeem their shares for a pro rata share of the trust account or we do not receive shareholder approval for such extension (and we are not be able to complete our initial business combination within such 24 month period), our corporate purposes and powers will immediately thereupon be limited to acts and activities related to dissolving and winding up our affairs, including liquidation, and we will not be able to engage in any other business activities; • our corporate existence will cease 36 months after the date of our initial public offering for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating pursuant to the Companies Law (2007 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, if we are unable to complete a business combination; • if the extended period is approved, public shareholders who voted against such proposal and exercised their redemption rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; • prior to the consummation of our initial business combination, we shall submit such business combination to our shareholders for approval; • we may consummate our initial business combination if: (i) the business combination is approved by a majority of the ordinary shares voted by our public shareholders, (ii) an amendment to our memorandum and articles of association allowing our perpetual existence is approved by a majority of our • outstanding ordinary shares and (iii) shareholders owning less than 35.0% of the ordinary shares purchased by the public shareholders in our initial public offering exercise their redemption rights (on a cumulative basis, including shares redeemed in connection with our seeking shareholder approval for the extended period, if applicable); • if our initial business combination is approved and consummated, public shareholders who voted against the business combination and exercised their redemption rights will receive their pro rata share of the trust account; • if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in our initial public offering, then we will be dissolved and distribute to all of our public shareholders their pro rata share of the trust account; • our management will take all actions necessary to liquidate our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of distribution if a business combination is not consummated or a letter of intent, an agreement in principle or a definitive agreement is not signed within the time periods specified in our initial public offering; • our shareholders’ rights to receive a portion of the trust fund are limited such that they may only receive a portion of the trust fund upon liquidation of our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of distribution or upon the exercise of their redemption rights; and • we may not consummate any other merger, capital stock exchange, stock purchase, asset acquisition or control through contractual arrangements or similar transaction other than a business combination that meets the conditions specified in our initial public offering, including the requirement that our initial business combination be with one or more operating businesses whose fair market value, either individually or collectively, is equal to at least 80% of the amount in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions) at the time of such business combination. 3 Our memorandum and articles of association provides that until the consummation of our initial business combination, the above requirements and restrictions may not be amended. Following an initial business combination, if an amendment was proposed and approved, it could reduce or eliminate the protection afforded to our public shareholders by these requirements and restrictions. However, we view these provisions as obligations to our shareholders and have agreed not to take any action to amend or waive these provisions. We have our securities quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which will limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Global Market or a national exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market and are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, a FINRA-sponsored and operated inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities not included on The Nasdaq Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board will limit the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Market or a national exchange. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in trust could be reduced and the per-share liquidation redemption price received by public shareholders will be less than $8 per share. Our placing of funds in trust may not protect those funds from third party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all creditors, prospective target businesses or other entities we engage execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any monies held in the trust account, there is no guarantee that they will execute such agreements, or if executed, that this will prevent potential contracted parties from making claims against the trust account. Nor is there any guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the trust account for any reason. Accordingly, the proceeds held in the trust account may be subject to claims which would take priority over the claims of our public shareholders and, as a result, the per-share liquidation price could be less than $8.00 due to claims of such creditors. If we are unable to complete a business combination and are forced to dissolve and liquidate, each of Chun Yi Hao and Hope Ni will, by agreement, agree to indemnify us (each in an amount proportional to the number of shares beneficially owned by them as compared to all of the shares beneficially owned by them as a group) for all claims of creditors (including claims of lawyers, accountants, printers, and investment bankers) or any potential target businesses, to the extent we fail to obtain waivers from such parties to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced. Additionally, if we are forced to declare insolvency or a case for involuntary liquidation is filed against us which is not dismissed, the funds held in our trust account will be subject to applicable Cayman insolvency law, and may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any claims deplete the trust account we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the liquidation amounts payable to them. Our shareholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them. Our articles of association provides that we will continue in existence only for 36 months (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our articles of association) from the date of our initial public offering. If we have not completed a business combination by such date and amended this provision in connection thereto, our corporate existence will cease except for the purposes of winding up our affairs and liquidating. As a result, this has the same effect as if we had formally went through a voluntary liquidation procedure under the Companies Law (2007 Revision) of the Cayman Islands, referred to in our initial public offering as the Companies Law. In such a situation under the Companies Law, a liquidator would give at least 21 days’ notice to creditors of his intention to make a distribution by notifying known creditors (if any) who have not submitted claims and by placing a public advertisement in the Cayman Islands Official Gazette, although in practice this notice requirement need not necessarily delay the distribution of assets as the liquidator may be satisfied that no creditors would be adversely affected as a consequence of a distribution before this time period has expired. We anticipate the trust account would be liquidated shortly following expiration of the 21 day period. As soon as the affairs of the company are fully wound-up, the liquidator must present his final report and accounts before a final general meeting which must be called by a public notice at least one month before it takes place. After the final meeting, the liquidator must make a return to the Registrar confirming the date on which the meeting was held and three months after the date of such filing the company is dissolved. 4 Additionally, in any liquidation proceedings of the company under Cayman Islands’ law, the funds held in our trust account may be included in our estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our shareholders. To the extent any such claims deplete the trust account, we cannot assure you we will be able to return to our public shareholders the liquidation amounts payable to them. Furthermore, a liquidator of the company might seek to hold a shareholder liable to contribute to our estate to the extent of distributions received by them pursuant to the dissolution of the trust account beyond the date of dissolution of the trust account. Additionally, we cannot assure you that third parties will not seek to recover from our shareholders amounts owed to them by us. Furthermore, our board may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors and/or may have acted in bad faith, and thereby exposing itself and our company to claims for having paid public shareholders from the trust account prior to addressing the claims of creditors. We cannot assure you that claims will not be brought against us for these reasons. If we are unable to consummate a transaction within 36 months (assuming the period in which we need to consummate a business combination has been extended, as provided in our articles of association) from the date of our initial public offering our purpose and powers will be limited to dissolving, liquidating and winding up. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will distribute the amount in our trust account to our public shareholders as part of our plan of dissolution and distribution. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from funds not held in trust, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot assure you that there will be sufficient funds for such purpose. If there are insufficient funds held outside the trust account for such purpose, Chun Yi Hao and Hope Ni have agreed that they will be jointly and severally liable (each in an amount proportional to the number of shares beneficially owned by them as compared to all of the shares beneficially owned by them as a group) to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced by the claims of target businesses or claims of vendors or other entities that are owed money by us for services rendered or contracted for or products sold to us. If we dissolve and liquidate before concluding a business combination, our public shareholders will receive slightly less than $8.00 per share on distribution of trust account funds and our warrants will expire worthless. If we are unable to complete a business combination and must dissolve and liquidate our assets, the per-share liquidating distribution will be less than $8.00 because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the planned costs of seeking a business combination. We expect these costs and expenses to include approximately $100,000 for expenses for the due diligence and investigation of a target business or businesses; approximately $450,000 for legal, accounting and other expenses associated with structuring, negotiating and documenting an initial business combination; an aggregate of up to $180,000 for office space, administrative services and secretarial support payable to Olympic Spring Limited, a company jointly and equally owned by Chun Yi Hao and Hope Ni, representing $7,500 per month for 24 months; $120,000 for legal and accounting fees relating to our SEC reporting obligations; and approximately $150,000 for working capital and general corporate requirements that will be used for miscellaneous expenses (including directors and officers liability insurance) and reserves. If we were unable to conclude an initial business combination and expended all of the net proceeds of our initial public offering, other than the proceeds deposited in the trust account, and without taking into account interest, if any, earned on the trust account, net of income taxes payable on such interest and net of interest income on the trust account balance previously released to us to fund working capital and general corporate requirements, the initial per-share liquidation price would be approximately $8.00, or equal to the per-share offering price of $8.00 (assuming that the entire offering amount was allocated to the shares included in the units). Furthermore, our outstanding warrants are not entitled to participate in a liquidating distribution and the warrants will therefore expire worthless if we dissolve and liquidate before completing an initial business combination; and as a result purchasers of our units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the ordinary shares included in each unit, will realize less than $8.00 for each such share, and will not receive any money for such warrant. We will dissolve and liquidate if we do not consummate a business combination, in which case our public shareholders will receive less than $8.00 per share on distribution. Pursuant to our memorandum and articles of association, among other things, we must liquidate if we do not complete a business combination within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering (or within 24 months after the consummation of our initial public offering if a letter of intent, agreement in principle or a definitive agreement has been executed within 18 months after the consummation of our initial public offering and the business combination relating thereto has not yet been consummated within such 18-month period, or within 36 months if the extended period is approved. The foregoing requirement is set forth in article 170 of our amended and restated articles of association and may not be eliminated prior to our initial business combination. Upon dissolution, we will distribute to all of our public shareholders, in proportion to their respective equity interests, an aggregate sum equal to the amount in the trust account (net of taxes payable and that portion of the interest earned previously released to us) and net assets held outside the trust account. Our original shareholders have waived their rights to participate in any liquidating distribution with respect to their original shareholders’ ordinary shares and have agreed to vote in favor of any dissolution and plan of distribution which we will present to our shareholders for vote. There will be no distribution from the trust account with respect to our warrants which will expire worthless. We will pay the costs of our dissolution and liquidation of the trust account from our remaining assets outside of the trust account, and we estimate such costs to be between $75,000 and $125,000, if not done in connection with a shareholder vote with respect to the extended period of a potential business combination. Upon notice from us, the trustee of the trust account will liquidate the investments constituting the trust account and will turn over the proceeds to our transfer agent for distribution to our public shareholders as part of our shareholder-approved dissolution and plan of distribution. Concurrently, we shall pay, or reserve for payment, from interest released to us from the trust account if available, our liabilities and obligations, although we cannot give you assurances that there will be sufficient funds outside the trust account for such purpose. The amounts held in the trust account may be subject to claims by third parties, such as vendors, prospective target business or other entities, if we do not obtain waivers in advance from such third parties prior to such parties providing us with services or entering into arrangements with them. We have not received any waiver agreements at this time and we cannot assure you that such waivers will be obtained or will be enforceable. Each of Chun Yi Hao and Hope Ni have agreed that, if we dissolve prior to the consummation of a business combination, they will indemnify us (each in an amount proportional to the number of shares beneficially owned by them as compared to all of the shares beneficially owned by them as a group) for all claims of creditors (including claims of lawyers, accountants, printers, and investment bankers) or any potential target businesses, to the extent we fail to obtain valid and enforceable waivers from such parties to ensure that the proceeds in the trust account are not reduced. However, we cannot assure you that they will be able to satisfy those obligations. We do not intend to take any additional measures to ensure that the funds of the trust account will not be depleted by claims against the trust account. Accordingly, upon dissolution and liquidation, the estimated per-share liquidating distribution will be approximately $8.00, because of the expenses of our initial public offering, our general and administrative expenses and the planned costs of seeking a business combination. 5 Unlike many other blank check offerings, we allow up to approximately 35.0% of the ordinary shares purchased by the public shareholders in our initial public offering, on a cumulative basis, to be redeemed. This higher threshold will make it easier for us to consummate a business combination with which you may not agree. When we seek shareholder approval for the extended period, if any, and our initial business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (other than our original shareholders) the right to have its ordinary shares converted to cash if the shareholder votes against the extended period or business combination, as the case may be, and such proposal is approved and, in the case of the business combination, it is also consummated. We will consummate the initial business combination only if the following three conditions are met: (i) a majority of the ordinary shares voted by the public shareholders are voted in favor of the business combination, (ii) a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares approve an amendment to our memorandum and articles of association allowing our perpetual existence, and (iii) public shareholders owning 35.0% or more of the shares sold in our initial public offering do not vote against the business combination and on a cumulative basis exercise their redemption rights (including any shares previously redeemed in connection with a vote, if any, on the extended period). Many other blank check companies have a redemption threshold of 20%, which makes it more difficult for such companies to consummate their initial business combination. Thus, because we permit a larger number of shareholders to exercise their redemption rights, it will be easier for us to consummate an initial business combination with a target business which shareholders may believe is not suitable for us, and you may not receive the full amount of your original investment upon exercise of your redemption rights. We have increased the redemption percentage to 35.0% from the more typical 20% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our stock will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a majority of our public shareholders and to be similar to other offerings by blank check companies currently in the market. Additionally, because we permit a larger number of shareholders to exercise their redemption rights, we could pay redeeming shareholders more of our trust funds than other blank check companies, which may result in our having to obtain additional financing to consummate the business combination or result in less money being available for use as working capital post-business combination. We may require shareholders who wish to redeem their shares to comply with specific requirements for redemption that may make it more difficult for them to exercise their redemption rights prior to the deadline for exercising redemption rights. We may require public shareholders who wish to redeem their shares to tender their certificates to our transfer agent prior to the shareholder meeting or to deliver their shares to the transfer agent electronically using the Depository Trust Company’s DWAC (Deposit/Withdrawal At Custodian) System. In order to obtain a physical share certificate, a shareholder’s broker and/or clearing broker, DTC and our transfer agent will need to act to facilitate this request. It is our understanding that shareholders should generally allot at least two weeks to obtain physical certificates from the transfer agent. However, because we do not have any control over this process or over the brokers or DTC, it may take significantly longer than two weeks to obtain a physical share certificate. If it takes longer than we anticipate to obtain a physical certificate, shareholders who wish to redeem may be unable to obtain physical certificates by the deadline for exercising their redemption rights and thus will be unable to redeem their shares. These requirements may take it more difficult for investors to elect redemption and are more likely to result in shareholders potentially not meeting all of the requirements for redemption. 6 Public shareholders, together with any of their affiliates or any other person with whom they are acting in concert or as a “group” with, will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. When we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder (but not our original shareholders) the right to have his, her, or its ordinary shares redeemed for cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a public shareholder, together with any affiliate of his or any other person with whom he is acting in concert or as a “group” will be restricted from seeking redemption rights with respect to more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering. Accordingly, if you hold more than 10% of the shares sold in our initial public offering and a proposed business combination is approved, you will not be able to seek redemption rights with respect to the full amount of your shares and may be forced to hold such additional shares or sell them in the open market. We cannot assure you that the value of such additional shares will appreciate over time following a business combination or that the market price of the ordinary shares will exceed the per-share redemption price. Since we have not yet selected a particular industry or any target business with which to complete a business combination, you will be unable to currently ascertain the merits or risks of the industry or business in which we may ultimately operate. We intend to consummate a business combination with a company in any industry we choose that we believe will provide significant opportunities for growth, and we are not limited to any particular industry or type of business. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular industry in which we may ultimately operate or the target business or businesses with which we may ultimately enter a business combination. Although we will evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risks present in that target business. Even if we properly assess those risks, some of them may be outside of our control or ability to affect. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will not ultimately prove to be less favorable to investors in our initial public offering than a direct investment, if an opportunity were available, in a target business. Your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. You will be relying on the ability of our officers and members of our board, with the assistance of our advisor and consultants, to choose a suitable business combination. Accordingly, your only opportunity to evaluate and affect the investment decision regarding a potential business combination will be limited to voting for or against the business combination submitted to our shareholders for approval. In addition, a proposal that you vote against could still be approved if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote for the proposed business combination. Alternatively, a proposal that you vote for could still be rejected if a sufficient number of public shareholders vote against the proposed business combination. We will not be required to obtain a fairness opinion from an independent investment banking firm as to the fair market value of the target business unless the Board of Directors is unable to independently determine the fair market value. The fair market value of a target business or businesses will be determined by our board of directors based upon standards generally accepted by the financial community, such as actual and potential sales, the values of comparable businesses, earnings and cash flow, and book value. If our board is not able to independently determine that the target business has a sufficient fair market value to meet the threshold criterion, we will obtain an opinion from an unaffiliated, independent investment banking firm which is a member of FINRA with respect to the satisfaction of such criterion. In all other instances, we will have no obligation to obtain or provide you with a fairness opinion. If we issue capital stock or redeemable debt securities to complete a business combination, your equity interest in us could be reduced or there may be a change in control of our company. Our memorandum and articles of association authorizes the issuance of up to 50 million ordinary shares, par value $0.001 per share, and 1 million preferred shares, par value $0.001 per share. There are 44,679,688 authorized but unissued ordinary shares available for issuance (after appropriate reservation for the issuance of shares upon full exercise of our outstanding warrants, including the private placement warrants) and all of the 1 million preferred shares available for issuance. We have no other commitments after our initial public offering to issue any additional securities. We may issue a substantial number of additional ordinary shares or preferred stock, or a combination of both, including through redeemable debt securities, to complete a business combination. The issuance of additional equity in a follow-on offering would not reduce the $8.00 expected to be paid to initial investors if the trust is liquidated. Our issuance of additional ordinary shares or any preferred shares: 7 • may significantly reduce your equity interest in us; • may cause a change in control if a substantial number of our ordinary shares are issued, which may among other things limit our ability to use any net operating loss carry forwards we have, and result in the resignation or removal of our officers and directors; • may, in certain circumstances, have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us; and • may adversely affect the then-prevailing market price for our ordinary shares. The value of your investment in us may decline if any of these events occur. If we acquire a company by issuing debt securities, our post-combination operating results may decline due to increased interest expense or our liquidity may be adversely affected by an acceleration of our indebtedness. We may elect to enter into a business combination that requires us to issue debt securities as part of the purchase price for a target business. If we issue debt securities, such issuances may result in: • default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating cash flow after a business combination were insufficient to pay our debt obligations; • acceleration, even if we are then current in our debt service obligations, if the debt securities have covenants that require us to meet certain financial ratios or maintain designated reserves, and any such covenants are breached without a waiver or renegotiation; • a required immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt security was payable on demand; and • our inability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, if the debt securities contain covenants restricting our ability to obtain additional financing. Our original shareholders currently control us and may influence certain actions requiring a shareholder vote. Our original shareholders are beneficially own, in the aggregate, 20.0% of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. They will not be eligible to exercise redemption rights for those shares if a business combination is approved by a majority of the votes cast by our public shareholders. Because our private placement investors, including Chardan Capital Markets, LLC, hold warrants to purchase 1,944,444 ordinary shares that they purchased in the private placement, after a business combination, the exercise of those warrants may increase their ownership in us. This increase could allow our private placement investors to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions after consummation of our initial business combination. If a significant number of shareholders vote, or indicate an intention to vote, against a proposed business combination, our original shareholders or private placement investors could make such purchases in order to influence the vote. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not consummated, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. It is anticipated that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting, and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents, and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If a decision is made not to complete a specific business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, even if an agreement is reached relating to a specific target business, we may fail to consummate the business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control such as that more than 35.0% cumulatively of the ordinary shares purchased by the public shareholders in our initial public offering vote against extending the period of time that we have to consummate a business combination and/or the business combination and opt to have us redeem their stock for a pro rata share of the trust account even if a majority of our public shareholders approve the business combination. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. 8 Our directors and officers may have a conflict of interest in deciding if a particular target business is a good candidate for a business combination. All of our officers and directors, directly or indirectly, own ordinary shares in our company that were issued prior to our initial public offering but have waived their right to receive distributions with respect to these shares upon a liquidation of the trust account if we are unable to complete a business combination. The ordinary shares which are beneficially owned by our officers and directors will be worthless if we do not consummate a business combination. Furthermore, the $1.75 million purchase price of the private placement warrants is included in the trust account that is distributed to our public shareholders in the event of our dissolution and liquidation. Our directors’ and officer’s desire to avoid rendering their ordinary shares and warrants worthless may result in a conflict of interest when they determine whether the terms, conditions and timing of a particular business combination are appropriate and in our shareholders’ best interest. Unless we complete a business combination, our officers and directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses they incur if such expenses exceed the amount available to us for working capital and general corporate purposes. Therefore, they may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is appropriate for a business combination and in the public shareholders’ best interest. Our directors will not receive reimbursement for any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them to the extent that such expenses exceed the amount not required to be retained in the trust account unless the business combination is consummated. Our directors may, as part of any such combination, negotiate the repayment of some or all of any such expenses. If the target business’ owners do not agree to such repayment, this could cause our management to view such potential business combination unfavorably, thereby resulting in a conflict of interest. The financial interest of our directors could influence their motivation in selecting a target business and thus, there may be a conflict of interest when determining whether a particular business combination is in the shareholders’ best interest. Our directors may not be considered “independent” under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc. and, therefore, may take actions or incur expenses that are not deemed to be independently approved or independently determined to be in our best interest. Under the policies of the North American Securities Administrators Association, Inc., an international organization devoted to investor protection, because all of our directors may receive reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by them in connection with activities on our behalf such as attending meetings of the board of directors, identifying potential target businesses, and performing due diligence on suitable business combinations, and certain of our directors indirectly own shares of our securities, state securities administrators could take the position that such individuals are not “independent.” If this were the case, they would take the position that we would not have the benefit of independent directors examining the propriety of expenses incurred on our behalf and subject to reimbursement. There is no limit on the amount of out-of-pocket expenses that could be incurred and there will be no review of the reasonableness of the expenses by anyone other than our board of directors, or a court of competent jurisdiction if such reimbursement is challenged. To the extent such out-of-pocket expenses exceed the available proceeds not deposited in the trust account, such out-of-pocket expenses would not be reimbursed by us unless we complete a business combination. Although we believe that all actions taken by our directors on our behalf will be in our best interests, whether or not they are deemed to be “independent,” we cannot assure you that this will actually be the case. If actions are taken, or expenses are incurred that actually are not in our best interests, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations and the price of our stock held by the public shareholders. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and, following a business combination, substantially all of our assets will be located outside the United States, including our trust fund which will be deposited at the London branch of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as trustee. In addition, certain of our directors and officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or our directors or officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against us or our directors or officers. Moreover, we have been advised that the PRC does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and the PRC would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the United States federal securities laws. 9 Our corporate affairs will be governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law (as the same may be supplemented or amended from time to time) or the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. We will probably complete only one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering, meaning our operations will depend on a single business that is likely to operate in a non-diverse industry or segment of an industry. The net proceeds from our initial public offering and the offering of the private placement warrants provided us with approximately $34 million that we may use to complete a business combination. Our initial business combination must be with a target business or businesses with a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account at the time of such business combination (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,191,749). There is no limitation on our ability to raise funds privately or through loans that would allow us to acquire a target business or businesses with a fair market value in an amount greater than 80% of the amount in our trust account at the time of such acquisition. We have not entered into and are not currently contemplating any financing arrangements with any third parties to raise additional funds. We may not be able to acquire more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. Additionally, we may encounter numerous logistical issues if we pursue multiple target businesses, including the difficulty of coordinating the timing of negotiations, proxy statement disclosure and closings. We may also be exposed to the risk that our inability to satisfy conditions to closing with one or more target businesses would reduce the fair market value of the remaining target businesses in the combination below the required threshold of 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,191,749). Due to these added risks, we are more likely to choose a single target business with which to pursue a business combination than multiple target businesses. Unless we combine with a target business in a transaction in which the purchase price consists substantially of ordinary shares and/or preferred stock, it is likely we will complete only our initial business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may depend solely on the performance of a single business. If this occurs, our operations will be highly concentrated and we will be exposed to higher risk than other entities that have the resources to complete several business combinations, or that operate in, diversified industries or industry segments. 10 If we do not conduct an adequate due diligence investigation of a target business with which we combine, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. In order to meet our disclosure and financial reporting obligations under the federal securities laws, and in order to develop and seek to execute strategic plans for how we can increase the revenues and/or profitability of a target business, realize operating synergies or capitalize on market opportunities, we must conduct a due diligence investigation of one or more target businesses. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will surface all material issues that may be present inside a particular target business, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our ordinary shares. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. We will depend on the limited funds available outside of the trust account and a portion of the interest earned on the trust account balance to fund our search for a target business or businesses and to complete our initial business combination. As of December 31, 2008, $312,988 was available to us outside the trust account to fund our working capital and general corporate requirements. We will depend on sufficient interest being earned on the proceeds held in the trust account to provide us with the additional working capital we will need to identify one or more target businesses and to complete our initial business combination. While we are entitled to have released to us for such purposes up to an aggregate of $0.85 million, subject to adjustment, of the interest income, net of income taxes on such interest, a substantial decline in interest rates may result in our having insufficient funds available with which to structure, negotiate or close an initial business combination. In such event, we would need to borrow additional funds from our founders to operate or we may dissolve and liquidate. The ability of our shareholders to exercise their redemption rights may not allow us to effectuate the most desirable business combination or optimize our capital structure and may require us to raise additional funds in order to complete a business combination, including incurring indebtedness at a higher than desirable level or through the sale of additional equity securities, which may adversely affect our remaining shareholders. When we seek shareholder approval of any business combination, we will offer each public shareholder, but not our original shareholders, the right to have his, her or its shares of ordinary shares converted to cash if the shareholder votes against the business combination and the business combination is approved and completed. Such holder must both vote against such business combination and then exercise his, her or its redemption rights to receive a pro rata portion of the trust account. We may proceed with a business combination as long as public shareholders owning less than 35% of the shares sold in our initial public offering exercise their redemption rights. Accordingly, public shareholders owning up to approximately 34.99% of the shares sold in our initial public offering may exercise their redemption rights and we could still consummate a proposed business combination. Therefore, as much as approximately $12 million (plus the redeeming shareholder’ share of all accrued interest after distribution of interest income on the trust account balance to us as described above) may be required to fund the exercise of redemption rights. We have set the redemption percentage at 35% in order to reduce the likelihood that a small group of investors holding a block of our shares will be able to stop us from completing a business combination that is otherwise approved by a substantial majority of our public shareholders. While there are several offerings similar to ours which include redemption provisions of between 20% and 40%, the 20% threshold had been customary and standard for offerings similar to ours. 11 Our business combination may require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price. In such a case, because we will not know how many shareholders may exercise such redemption rights, we may need either to reserve part of the trust account for possible payment upon such redemption if the transaction is approved, or we may need to arrange third party financing to help fund our business combination in case a larger percentage of shareholders exercise their redemption rights than we expect. Additionally, even if our business combination does not require us to use substantially all of our cash to pay the purchase price, if a significant number of shareholders exercise their redemption rights, we will have less cash available to use in furthering our business plans following a business combination and may need to arrange third party financing. Since we have no specific business combination under consideration, we have not taken any steps to secure third party financing for either situation. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such third party financing on terms favorable to us or at all. Therefore, we may not be able to consummate a business combination that requires us to use all of the funds held in the trust account as part of the purchase price, or we may end up having a leverage ratio that is not optimal for our business combination. In the event that the acquisition involves the issuance of our shares as consideration, we may be required to issue a higher percentage of our shares to make up for a shortfall in funds. Raising additional funds to cover any shortfall may involve dilutive equity financing or incurring indebtedness at a higher than desirable level, adversely affecting our remaining shareholders. This may limit our ability to effectuate the most attractive business combination available to us. We may be unable to obtain additional financing if necessary to complete a business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. We may consider a business combination that will require additional financing. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete a business combination or that we will have sufficient capital with which to complete a combination with a particular target business. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering are not sufficient to facilitate a particular business combination because: • of the size of the target business; • of the depletion of offering proceeds not in the trust account or available to us from interest earned on the trust account balance that is expended in search of a target business; or • we must redeem for cash a significant number of ordinary shares owned by shareholders who elect to exercise their redemption rights, we will be required to seek additional financing. We cannot assure you that such financing would be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If additional financing is unavailable to consummate a particular business combination, we would be compelled to restructure or abandon the combination and seek an alternative target business. Even if we do not need additional financing to consummate a business combination, we may require such financing to operate or grow the target business. If we fail to secure such financing, this failure could have a material adverse effect on the operations or growth of the target business. None of our directors nor any other party is required to provide any financing to us in connection with, or following, a business combination. Our outstanding warrants may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares and make it more difficult to effect a business combination. The units being sold in our initial public offering included warrants to purchase 3,750,000 ordinary shares. We consummated the sale of 506,250 units which were sold subject to the over-allotment option On May 28, 2008. We also have sold, in a private placement, warrants to our private placement investors to purchase an aggregate 1,944,444 ordinary shares. The warrants sold in the private placement are identical to those warrants sold as part of the units in the initial public offering except the warrants are not redeemable by the holders of our private placement warrants and the underlying ordinary shares will be entitled to certain registration rights commencing upon the consummation of our initial business combination. If we issue ordinary shares to consummate a business combination, the potential issuance of additional ordinary shares on exercise of these warrants could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to some target businesses. This is because exercise of the warrants will increase the number of issued and outstanding ordinary shares and may reduce the value of the shares issued to complete the business combination. Our warrants may make it more difficult to complete a business combination or increase the purchase price sought by one or more target businesses. Additionally, the sale or possibility of sale of the shares underlying the warrants could have an adverse effect on the market price for our ordinary shares or our units, or on our ability to obtain other financing. If and to the extent these warrants are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. The grant of registration rights to our original shareholders may make it more difficult to complete a business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Our original shareholders’ ordinary shares and warrants will be entitled to certain demand registration rights commencing six months after the consummation of a business combination, and holders of the private placement warrants and the underlying ordinary shares will be entitled to demand certain registration rights commencing upon the consummation of a business combination. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make a business combination more costly or difficult to conclude. This is because the shareholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our ordinary shares that is expected when the securities owned by our original shareholders are registered. 12 You will not be able to exercise your warrants if we do not have an effective registration statement in place when you desire to do so. No warrants will be exercisable, and we will not be obligated to issue ordinary shares upon exercise of warrants by a holder unless, at the time of such exercise, we have a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants and a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares. We have agreed to use our best efforts to have a registration statement in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants from the date the warrants become exercisable and to maintain a current prospectus relating to the ordinary shares until the warrants expire or are redeemed. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Additionally, we have no obligation to settle the warrants for cash in the absence of an effective registration statement or under any other circumstances. The warrants may be deprived of any value, the market for the warrants may be limited, the holders of warrants may not be able to exercise their warrants if there is no registration statement in effect covering the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants or the prospectus relating to the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not current and the warrants may expire worthless. If we are deemed to be an investment company, we may be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities may be restricted, which may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination. We may be deemed to be an investment company, as defined under Sections 3(a)(1)(A) and (C) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, if, following our initial public offering and prior to the consummation of a business combination, we are viewed as engaging in the business of investing in securities or we own investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of our total assets. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, we may be subject to certain restrictions that may make it difficult for us to complete a business combination, including: • restrictions on the nature of our investments; and • restrictions on our issuance of securities. In addition, we may have imposed upon us burdensome requirements, including: • registration as an investment company; • adoption of a specific form of corporate structure; and • reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy and disclosure requirements and other rules and regulations. We do not believe that our anticipated activities will subject us to the Investment Company Act of 1940. In this regard, our agreement with the trustee states that proceeds in the trust account will be invested only in U.S. “government securities,” defined as any Treasury Bill issued by the United States having a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act that only invest in government securities having a maturity of 180 days or less. This investment restriction is intended to facilitate our not being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are deemed to be subject to the Investment Company Act, compliance with these additional regulatory burdens would increase our operating expenses and could make our initial business combination more difficult to complete. 13 Companies with similar business plans to ours have had limited success in completing a business transaction. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify a potential target business, or complete a business combination. Based on publicly available information, approximately 159 similarly structured blank check companies have completed initial public offerings since August 2003, and numerous others have filed registration statements. Of these companies, only 53 companies have consummated a business combination, while 26 other companies have announced that they have entered into definitive agreements or letters of intent with respect to potential business combinations, but have not yet consummated such business combinations and another 20 have liquidated or have announced that are liquidating. Accordingly, there are approximately 60 blank check companies with approximately $10.8 billion in trust have filed registration statements and are or will be seeking to enter into a business combination. While some of these companies have specific industries in which they must identify a potential target business, a number of these companies may consummate a business combination in any industry and/or geographic location they choose. As a result, we may be subject to competition from these and other companies seeking to consummate a business combination within any of our target sectors, which, in turn, will result in an increased demand for privately-held companies in these industries. Because of this competition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the required time period. We expect to encounter intense competition from other entities having a business objective similar to ours, including private investors (which may be individuals or investment partnerships), other blank check companies, and other entities, domestic and international, competing for the type of businesses that we may intend to acquire. Many of these individuals and entities are well established and have extensive experience in identifying and effecting, directly or indirectly, acquisitions of companies operating in Asian countries, including China. Many of these competitors possess greater technical, human and other resources, or more local knowledge, than we do and our financial resources will be relatively limited when contrasted with those of many of these competitors. While we believe that there are numerous target acquisitions that we could potentially acquire with the net proceeds of our initial public offering, our ability to compete with respect to the acquisition of certain target acquisitions that are sizable will be limited by our available financial resources. This inherent competitive limitation gives others an advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target acquisitions. Furthermore, the obligation we have to seek shareholder approval of a business combination may delay the consummation of a transaction. Additionally, our outstanding warrants and the future dilution they potentially represent may not be viewed favorably by certain target acquisitions. Also, our obligation to redeem our ordinary shares for cash in certain instances may reduce the resources available for a business combination. Any of these obligations may place us at a competitive disadvantage in negotiating a business combination. We may be unable to compete for an attractive business combination. Additionally, because of this competition, we cannot assure you we will be able to effectuate a business combination within the prescribed time period. If we are unable to consummate a business combination within the prescribed time period, we will be forced to liquidate. We are dependent upon Chun Yi Hao and Hope Ni and the loss of either of them could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a small group of individuals and, in particular, upon Chun Yi Hao, our Chief Executive Officer, and Hope Ni, the Chairman of our board of directors. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of these persons, at least until we have consummated a business combination. We cannot assure you that such individuals will remain with us for the immediate or foreseeable future. In addition, there is no minimum amount of time that either Mr. Hao or Ms. Ni have agreed to devote to our business nor are they required to commit any specified amount of time to our affairs and, accordingly, they will have conflicts of interest in allocating management time among various business activities, including identifying potential business combinations and monitoring the related due diligence. We do not have employment agreements with, or key-man insurance on the life of, either of these individuals. The unexpected loss of the services of either of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination and to be successful upon completion of a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our management, some of whom may join us following a business combination and whom we would have only a limited ability to evaluate. It is also likely that our current officers and directors will resign upon the completion of a business combination. Our ability to successfully effect a business combination will be dependent upon the efforts of our management. The future role of our management following a business combination, however, cannot presently be fully ascertained. Although certain members of our management team may remain associated with us following a business combination, it is unlikely that our entire management team will be able to remain with the combined company after the completion of a business combination. Thus, we will likely employ other personnel following the business combination. While we intend to closely scrutinize any additional individuals we engage after a business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a public company, as well as U.S. securities laws, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. 14 Because we must furnish our shareholders with target business financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or IFRS, we may not be able to complete a business combination with some prospective target businesses unless their financial statements are first reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles or IFRS. The federal securities laws require that a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports and proxy materials submitted to shareholders. Because our initial business combination must be with a target business that has a fair market value of at least 80% of the balance in the trust account (excluding deferred underwriting discounts and commissions of $1,191,749) at the time of our initial business combination, we will be required to provide historical and pro forma financial information to our shareholders when seeking approval of a business combination with one or more target businesses. These financial statements must be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or prepared in accordance with IFRS, as issued by the IASB, and the historical financial statements must be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. If a proposed target business, including one located outside of the U.S., does not have financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with, or that can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP, or prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, and audited in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses with which we may combine. We believe that we will likely be classified as a passive foreign investment company (or “PFIC”), which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We believe we will likely be classified as a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes. As a result of being classified as a PFIC, U.S. Holders of our ordinary shares and warrants may be subject to increased United States federal income tax liability and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. A United States investor may be able to mitigate this potential increased United States federal income tax liability by making a QEF Election in respect of our ordinary shares. The QEF Election will not, however, shield a U.S. holder from imposition of such tax and interest charge on gain recognized on the disposition of an investment in our warrants. Each prospective investor is urged to consult his tax advisor regarding the possible application of the PFIC rules. For a summary of the tax consequences of PFIC classification to U.S. Holders. Risks Associated with Acquiring and Operating a Target Business in China After a business combination, substantially all of our assets could be located in China and substantially all of our revenue will be derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects will be subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects. Since 1978, China has been one of the world’s fastest-growing economies in terms of gross domestic product (GDP) growth. We cannot assure you, however, that such growth will be sustained in the future. If in the future China’s economy experiences a downturn or grows at a slower rate than expected, there may be less demand for spending in certain industries. A decrease in demand for spending in certain industries could materially and adversely affect our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination and if we make an acquisition, the ability of that target business to become profitable. Our ability to find an attractive target business with which to consummate a business combination is based in part on the assumption that the Chinese economy will continue to grow. The PRC’s economic growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage sustainable economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. The PRC government has also begun to use macroeconomic tools to decelerate the rate of Chinese economic growth. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us, depending on the industry in which we engage in a business combination. For example, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to a potential target business and a business combination. 15 The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the use of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. We cannot assure you that China’s economic, political or legal systems will not develop in a way that becomes detrimental to our business, prospects, financial conditions and results of operations. If the PRC government finds that the possible future agreements that establish the structure for operating our China businesses do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment, or if these regulations or the interpretation of existing regulations change in the future, we could be subject to significant penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. PRC regulations currently prohibit or restrict foreign ownership in certain industries. If we or any of our potential future subsidiaries or affiliated entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations (for example, if we are deemed to be holding equity interests in certain of our affiliated entities in which direct foreign ownership is prohibited) the relevant PRC regulatory authorities might have the discretion to: • revoke the business and operating licenses of possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; • confiscate relevant income and impose fines and other penalties; • discontinue or restrict possible future PRC subsidiaries’ or affiliates’ operations; • require us or possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; • restrict or prohibit our use of the proceeds of our initial public offering to finance our businesses and operations in China; • restrict or prohibit remittance of any profits or dividends abroad by our future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; or • impose conditions or requirements with which we or possible future PRC subsidiaries or affiliates may not be able to comply. The imposition of any of these penalties could result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities may impose further penalties. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our operations. In many cases, existing regulations with regard to investments from foreign investors and domestic private capital lack detailed explanations and operational procedures, and are subject to interpretation, which may change over time. We thus cannot be certain how the regulations will be applied to our business, either currently or in the future. Moreover, new regulations may be adopted or the interpretation of existing regulations may change, any of which could result in similar penalties, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. 16 If we acquire a target business through contractual arrangements with one or more operating businesses in China, such contracts may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of such businesses. The government of the PRC has restricted or limited foreign ownership of certain kinds of assets and companies operating in certain industries. The industry groups that are restricted are wide ranging, including certain aspects of telecommunications, advertising, food production, and heavy equipment manufacturers, for example. In addition there can be restrictions on the foreign ownership of businesses that are determined from time to time to be in “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or having “famous trademarks” or “traditional Chinese brand names.” Subject to the review and approval requirements of the Ministry of Commerce and other relevant agencies as discussed elsewhere for acquisitions of assets and companies in the PRC and subject to the various percentage ownership limitations that exist from time to time, acquisitions involving foreign investors and parties in the various restricted categories of assets and industries may nonetheless sometimes be consummated using contractual arrangements with permitted Chinese parties. To the extent that such agreements are employed, they may be for control of specific assets such as intellectual property or control of blocks of the equity ownership interests of a company which may provide exceptions to the merger and acquisition regulations mentioned below since these types of arrangements typically do not involve a change of equity ownership in PRC operating company. The agreements would be designed to provide our company with the economic benefits of and control over the subject assets or equity interests similar to the rights of full ownership, while leaving the technical ownership in the hands of Chinese parties who would be our nominees and, therefore, may exempt the transaction from the merger and acquisition regulations, including the application process required thereunder. However, since there has been limited implementation guidance provided with respect to the merger and acquisition regulations, there can be no assurance that the relevant government agencies would not apply them to a business combination effected through contractual arrangements. If such an agency determines that such an application should have been made, consequences may include ordering the application to be made with proper government agencies levying fines, revoking business and other licenses, requiring restructure of ownership or operations and requiring discontinuation of any portion of all of the acquired business. These agreements likely also would provide for increased ownership or full ownership and control by us when and if permitted under PRC law and regulation. If we choose to effect a business combination that employs the use of these types of control arrangements, we may have difficulty in enforcing our rights. Therefore, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with the same economic benefits, accounting consolidation or control over a target business as would direct ownership. For example, if the target business or any other entity fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to incur substantial costs and expend substantial resources to enforce such arrangements, and rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, including seeking specific performance, and claiming damages, which we cannot assure will be sufficient to off-set the cost of enforcement and may adversely affect the benefits we expect to receive from the business combination. Contractual arrangements we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities or acquisitions of offshore entities that conduct PRC operations through affiliates in China may be subject to a high level of scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities. Under PRC law, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. If any of the transactions we enter into with potential future subsidiaries and affiliated entities are found not to be on an arm’s-length basis, or to result in an unreasonable reduction in tax under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities have the authority to disallow any tax savings, adjust the profits and losses of such possible future PRC entities and assess late payment interest and penalties. A finding by the PRC tax authorities that we are ineligible for any such tax savings, or that any of our possible future affiliated entities are not eligible for tax exemptions, would substantially increase our possible future taxes and thus reduce our net income and the value of your investment. In addition, in the event that in connection with an acquisition of an offshore entity that conducted its PRC operations through affiliates in China, the sellers of such entities failed to pay any taxes required under PRC law, the PRC tax authorities could require us to withhold and pay the tax, together with late-payment interest and penalties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. Potential future PRC targets or strategic partners may have previously engaged or may engage in activities without appropriate licenses or approvals or outside the authorized scope of their business licenses or permitted activities. This could subject those companies to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Potential future targets or strategic partners may have previously engaged or may currently engage in activities without appropriate licenses or approvals or outside the authorized scope of their business licenses or permitted activities. If we or our strategic partners do not receive any necessary licenses or approvals, broaden the authorized business scope or narrow the scope of the activities as appropriate, we or the relevant strategic partner may have to cease operations or contract our operations to third parties who hold the appropriate licenses. In addition, counterparties to contracts we make when engaging in activities that require licenses may legally default on those contracts if we or the relevant strategic partner do not possess the appropriate licenses. The occurrence of any of these events would have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. PRC authorities may refuse to grant any licenses we may seek. For companies that exceeded the scope of their business licenses or permitted activities or operated without a license or needed approval in the past but are now compliant, as well as for any companies that may currently operate without the appropriate license or approval or outside the scope of their business license or permitted activities, the relevant PRC authorities have the authority to impose fines or other penalties, sometimes as much as five to ten times the amount of the illegal revenues and may require the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the business license. Due to the inconsistent nature of regulatory enforcements in the PRC, those of our possible future PRC strategic partners that exceeded the scope of their business licenses or permitted activities or operated without the appropriate licenses or approvals in the past or do so in the future may be subject to the above fines or penalties, including the disgorgement of profits or revocation of the business license of one or more of these companies. These fines or penalties may have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 Because Chinese law governs almost all of any target business’ current material agreements, we may not be able to enforce our rights within the PRC or elsewhere, which could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. We believe that it is highly likely that Chinese law governs almost all of any target business’ current material agreements, some or many of which could be with Chinese governmental agencies. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of the PRC. The Chinese legal system is similar to a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in China over the past 25 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new. Due to the limited volume of published judicial decisions, their non-binding nature, the short history since their enactments, the discrete understanding of the judges or government agencies of the same legal provision, inconsistent professional abilities of the judicators, and the inclination to protect local interest in the court rooms, interpretation and enforcement of PRC laws and regulations involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital and could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China, regardless of outcome, may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If relations between the United States and the PRC deteriorate, potential target businesses or their goods or services could become less attractive. The relationship between the United States and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For instance, if the United States imposes quotas on Chinese imports, such import quotas may adversely affect political relations between the two countries and result in retaliatory countermeasures by the PRC in industries that may affect our ultimate target business. Relations may also be compromised if the U.S. becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan or proceeds to sell certain military weapons and technology to Taiwan. Relations may also be compromised if either the PRC government or the Taiwan government unilaterally alters the current political status quo between Taiwan and the Chinese mainland. Changes in political conditions in the PRC and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause potential target businesses or their goods and services to become less attractive. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could adversely affect our operations. Our target business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or another epidemic. From time to time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. If the PRC imposes restrictions to reduce inflation, future economic growth in the PRC could be severely curtailed which could lead to a significant decrease in our profitability following a business combination. While the economy of the PRC has experienced rapid growth, this growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the supply of money and rising inflation. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. If similar restrictions are imposed, it may lead to a slowing of economic growth and decrease the interest in the services or products we may ultimately offer leading to a decline in our profitability. 18 As a result of merger and acquisition regulations which became effective on September 8, 2006 relating to acquisitions of assets and equity interests of Chinese companies by foreign persons, it is expected that acquisitions will take longer and be subject to economic scrutiny by the PRC government authorities such that we may not be able to complete a transaction, negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our shareholders, or sufficiently protect shareholder’s interests in a transaction. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, namely, the Ministry of Commerce (MOFCOM), the State Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC), the State Administration for Taxation, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (SAIC), the China Securities Regulatory Committee (CSRC), and the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), jointly adopted the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006 (M&A Rules). These comprehensive rules govern the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside the PRC. Although prior to September 8, 2006 there was a complex series of regulations administered by a combination of provincial and centralized agencies in place for acquisition approval of Chinese enterprises by foreign investors, the M&A Rules have largely centralized and expanded the approval process to MOFCOM, SAIC, SAFE or its branch offices, SASAC, and the CSRC. The M&A Rules established, among other things, additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the MOFCOM be notified in advance when a foreign investor acquires equity or assets of a PRC domestic enterprise. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rules to complete such transactions could be time-consuming and involves significant uncertainty, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the aforementioned agencies, some of which must be made within strict time limits and require approvals from one or more of the aforementioned agencies. The application process has been supplemented to require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, introducing aspects of economic and substantive analysis of the target business and the acquirer and the terms of the transaction by MOFCOM and the other governing agencies as well as an evaluation of compliance with legal requirements. The application process for approval now includes submissions of an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, depending on the structure of the transaction. An employee settlement plan for the target company shall also be included in the application. The M&A Rules also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets. The regulations require that in certain transaction structures, the consideration must be paid within strict time periods, generally not in excess of a year. In the agreement reached by the foreign acquirer, target, creditors and other parties, there must be no harm to third parties and the public interest in the allocation of assets and liabilities being assumed or acquired. These aspects of the regulations will limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Therefore, we may not be able to negotiate a transaction with terms that will satisfy our investors and protect our shareholders interests in an acquisition of a Chinese business or assets. It is expected that compliance with the regulations will be more time consuming than in the past, will be more costly for the Chinese parties and will permit the government much more extensive evaluation and control over the terms of the transaction. Therefore, acquisitions in China may not be able to be completed because the terms of the transaction may not satisfy aspects of the approval process and may not be completed, even if approved, if they are not consummated within the time permitted by the approvals granted. The M&A Rules have introduced national security review and industry protection and have incorporated anti-trust review in the acquisition of Chinese companies and assets which may limit our ability to effect an acquisition. Under the PRC merger and acquisition regulations, acquisitions of Chinese domestic companies relating to “important industries” that may affect the national economic security or result in the transfer of “actual control” of companies having “famous trademarks” or “traditional Chinese brand names” must be reported and approved by the relevant agencies. The “important industries,” “famous trademarks” or the “traditional Chinese brand names” are often difficult to define, and therefore make us vulnerable to the government scrutiny under these reviews. 19 The merger and acquisition regulations also provide for antitrust review requirements for certain large transactions or transactions involving large companies and roll-up transactions with the same effect in the relevant Chinese market. In addition, certain mergers and acquisitions among foreign companies occurring outside of the PRC could also be subject to antitrust review in China which is similar to United States anti-trust law concepts. Exemptions may be sought from the MOFCOM and SAIC. Notwithstanding the M&A Rules, a new anti-monopoly law was recently promulgated on August 30th, 2007 and will take effect on August 1st, 2008, and will replace or supplement the above provisions. Any transaction that we contemplate will have to comply with these regulations and may require additional approval or abandonment if we are not able to satisfy the requirements of the governmental authorities. When we evaluate a potential transaction, we will consider the need to comply with these regulations which may result in our modifying or not pursuing a particular transaction. Ambiguities in the M & A Rules may make it difficult for us to properly comply with all applicable rules and may affect our ability to consummate a business combination. Although the M&A Rules set forth many requirements that have to be followed, there are many ambiguities with respect to the meaning of many provisions of the M&A Rules. Moreover, the ambiguities give regulators wide latitude in the enforcement of regulations and approval of transactions. Therefore, we cannot predict the extent to which the M&A Rules will apply to a transaction, and therefore, there may be uncertainty in whether or not a transaction will be completed until the approval process is under way or until the preliminary approvals are obtained. This may negatively impact our ability to consummate a business combination. Any devaluation of currencies used in the PRC could negatively impact our target business’ results of operations and any appreciation thereof could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Because our objective is to complete a business combination with a target business having its primary operating facilities located in the PRC, and because substantially all revenues and income following a business combination would be received in a foreign currency such as Renminbi, the main currency used in the PRC, the dollar equivalent of our net assets and distributions, if any, would be adversely affected by reductions in the value of the Renminbi. The value of the Renminbi fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. To the extent that we need to convert United States dollars into Chinese Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of this currency against the United States dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into United States dollars for other business purposes and the United States dollar appreciates against this currency, the United States dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. The conversion of Renminbi into foreign currencies such as the United States dollar has been generally based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, which are set daily based on the previous day’s interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Historically, China “pegged” its currency to the United States dollar. This meant that each unit of Chinese currency had a set ratio for which it could be exchanged for United States currency, as opposed to having a floating value like other countries’ currencies. Many countries argued that this system of keeping the Chinese currency low when compared to other countries gave Chinese companies an unfair price advantage over foreign companies. Due to mounting pressure from other countries, the PRC recently reformed its economic policies to establish a floating value for its currency. However, since July 21, 2005, RMB has been re-pegged to a basket of currencies, and is permitted to fluctuate within a managed band. As of December 31, 2007, the exchange rate of the Renminbi was 7.3141 against the United States dollar, amounting to a 6.6% appreciation of the Renminbi since December 31, 2006. This floating exchange rate, and any appreciation of the Renminbi that may result from such rate, could cause the cost of a target business as measured in dollars to increase. Further, target companies may be adversely affected since the competitive advantages that existed as a result of the former policies will cease. We cannot assure you that a target business with which we consummate a business combination will be able to compete effectively with the new policies in place. Exchange controls that exist in the PRC may limit our ability to utilize our cash flow effectively following a business combination. Following a business combination with a PRC target company, we will be subject to the PRC’s rules and regulations on currency conversion. In the PRC, the State Administration for Foreign Exchange (SAFE) regulates the conversion of the Renminbi into foreign currencies. The principal regulation governing foreign currency exchange in China is the Foreign Currency Administration Rules (1996), as amended. Under these rules and regulations, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. Currently, foreign investment enterprises (FIEs) are required to apply to the SAFE for “Foreign Exchange Registration Certificates for FIEs.” Following a business combination, we will likely be an FIE as a result of our ownership structure. With such registration certificates, which need to be renewed annually, FIEs are allowed to open foreign currency accounts including a “basic account” and “capital account.” Currency conversion within the scope of the “basic account,” such as remittance of foreign currencies for payment of dividends, can be effected without requiring the approval of the SAFE. However, conversion of currency in the “capital account,” including capital items such as direct investment, loans and securities, still require approval of the SAFE. We cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose further restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi. Any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use our cash flow for the distribution of dividends to our shareholders or to fund operations we may have outside of the PRC. 20 If the PRC enacts regulations in our target business’ proposed industry segments which forbid or restrict foreign investment, our ability to consummate a business combination could be severely impaired. Many of the rules and regulations that companies face in China are not explicitly communicated. If new laws or regulations forbid foreign investment in industries in which we want to complete a business combination, they could severely limit the candidate pool of potential target businesses. Additionally, if the relevant Chinese authorities find us or the target business with which we ultimately complete a business combination to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation: • levying fines; • revoking our business and other licenses; • requiring that we restructure our ownership or operations; and • requiring that we discontinue any portion or all of our business. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit or adversely effect our ability to acquire PRC companies. On October 21, 2005 SAFE issued Circular 75 on “Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles”. Circular 75 confirms that the use of offshore special purpose vehicles as holding companies for PRC investments are permitted as long as proper foreign exchange registrations are made with the SAFE. To implement Circular 75, SAFE issued an implementation notice in May 2007, or Circular 106. Circular 106 specified the circumstances under which PRC residents are required to comply with Notice 75 and which procedures are to be followed. The SAFE regulations retroactively require approval and registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to obtain the required SAFE approval and make the required registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profits to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE approval and registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. Since any future business combination may involve corporate financing or roundtrip investment by PRC residents through an offshore special purpose vehicle for the purpose of Circular 75 and Circular 106, we or the owners of the target companies who are PRC residents may be subject to registration and filing requirements of SAFE under Circular 75 and Circular 106. We cannot assure you that we, or the owners of the target business we intend to acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary filings and registrations with SAFE for a proposed business combination on a timely basis. This may restrict our ability to implement our business combination strategy and adversely affect the operation results of our future PRC subsidiaries and affiliates. Because any target business in China with which we attempt to complete a business combination will be required to provide our shareholders with financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to United States generally accepted accounting principles or IFRS, the number of prospective target businesses may be limited. In accordance with requirements of United States federal securities laws, in order to seek shareholder approval of a business combination, a proposed target business will be required to have certain financial statements which are prepared in accordance with, or which are reconciled to, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or IFRS, as issued by the IASB. To the extent that a proposed target business does not have financial statements which have been prepared with, or which can be reconciled to, U.S. GAAP or IFRS, as issued by the IASB, we will not be able to acquire that proposed target business. These financial statements may limit the pool of potential target businesses which we may acquire. 21 If our management following a business combination is unfamiliar with United States securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. Following a business combination, our management will likely resign from their positions as officers of the company and the management of the target business at the time of the business combination will remain in place. We cannot assure you that management of the target business will be familiar with United States securities laws. If new management is unfamiliar with our laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. After we consummate a business combination, our operating company in China will be subject to restrictions on dividend payments. After we consummate a business combination, we may rely on dividends and other distributions from our operating company to provide us with cash flow and to meet our other obligations. Current regulations in China would permit our operating company in China to pay dividends to us only out of its accumulated distributable profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. In addition, our operating company in China will be required to set aside at least 10% (up to an aggregate amount equal to half of its registered capital) of its accumulated profits each year. Such cash reserve may not be distributed as cash dividends. In addition, if our operating company in China incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other payments to us. The PRC government has enacted a new law on enterprise income tax, and as it implements this law the tax and fee benefits provided to foreign investors and companies to encourage development within the country will be or have been reduced or removed resulting in rising expenses which will impact margins and net income. On March 16, 2007, the NPC approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. This new tax law and the implementation rules for the new tax law took effect on January 1, 2008. Before the new tax law came into force, FIEs and PRC domestic companies were taxed differently and FIEs used to enjoy certain preferential treatments and benefits in tax and other areas under Chinese laws. Under the new tax law, FIEs and domestic companies are subject to a uniform tax rate of 25%. The new tax law provides a five-year transition period starting from its effective date for those enterprises which were established before the promulgation date of the new tax law and which were entitled to a preferential lower tax rate under the then-effective tax laws or regulations. In accordance with regulations issued by the State Council, the tax rate of such enterprises may gradually transition to the uniform tax rate within the transition period. For those enterprises which are enjoying tax holidays, such tax holidays may continue until their expiration in accordance with the regulations issued by the State Council, but where the tax holiday has not yet started because of losses, such tax holiday shall be deemed to commence from the first effective year of the new tax law. While the new tax law equalizes the tax rates for FIEs and domestic companies, preferential tax treatment would continue to be given to companies in certain encouraged sectors and to entities classified as high-technology companies supported by the PRC government, whether FIEs or domestic companies. According to the new tax law, entities that qualify as high-technology companies especially supported by the PRC government are expected to benefit from a tax rate of 15% as compared to the uniform tax rate of 25%. Nevertheless, there can be no assurances that any particular company will continue to qualify as a high-technology company supported by the PRC government in the future, and benefit from such preferential tax rate. Following the effectiveness of the new tax law, an FIE’s effective tax rate may increase, unless it is otherwise eligible for preferential treatment. Additionally, under the new tax law, an income tax rate of 10% will be assessed on dividends payable to non-PRC investors derived from sources within the PRC. Investors should note that the new tax law and its implementation rules still leave many details on the the interpretation and specific applications of various provisions unclear and unspecified. Any increase in our tax rate in the future could have a material adverse effect on our financial conditions and results of operations. 22 If the PRC government determines that we failed to obtain requisite PRC governmental approvals for, or register with the PRC government, for our future import and export of technologies, we could be subject to sanctions. China imposes controls on technology import and export. The term “technology import and export” is broadly defined to include, without limitation, the transfer or license of patents, software and know-how, and the provision of services in relation to technology. Depending on the nature of the relevant technology, the import and export of technology require either approval by, or registration with, the relevant PRC governmental authorities. We can make no assurances that we will successfully obtain such approval or complete such registration. If we are found to be in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, but not limited to, issuing a warning, levying fines, restricting us from remitting royalties or any other fees, if any, relating to these technologies outside of China, confiscating our earnings generated from the import or export of such technology or even restricting our future export and import of any technology. Even if we successfully obtain such approval or complete such registration, if the PRC government determines that our import and export of technology is inconsistent with, or insufficient for, the proper operation of our business, we could be subject to similar sanctions. Any of these or similar sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may adversely affect our business and result of operations. Additional Risks Associated with Acquiring and Operating a Target Business in Other Locations in Asia In addition to the risks described above relating to acquiring and operating a business in China, we will be subject to risks related to owning and operating business in other locations in Asia. We will be subject to risks relating to international business ownership or control, including risks related to changes in local, political, economic and market conditions, interest rates, zoning laws, compliance with environmental laws, costs and terms of financing and the potential for uninsured casualty and other losses. Various international jurisdictions have laws limiting the ability of entities not formed in such jurisdictions to pay dividends and remit earnings to affiliated companies unless specified conditions are met. Sales in jurisdictions will generally be made in local currencies, which would subject us to risks associated with currency fluctuations. Currency devaluations and unfavorable changes in international monetary and tax policies could have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financing plans, as could other changes in the international regulatory climate and international economic conditions. We also may be subject to currency exchange controls or other monetary policies that require or prohibit the repatriation of profits. When effecting a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. When effecting a business combination with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, it is likely that substantially all of our assets will be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. ITEM 