D. Risk Factors Risks Associated with Our Business and Industry Actual overall risks or costs of our contracts may exceed our initial evaluation and lead to cost overruns, resulting in a reduction in revenues, lower profitability or even losses on such contracts. We base a number of contracts in part on cost estimates that are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions about future economic conditions, cost and availability of raw materials and labor. However, these assumptions may prove to be inaccurate. In addition, we may not be able to reduce our costs through our cost management scheme. Any deficiencies in internal cost control or unreasonable price increases in raw materials could result in cost overruns. We currently generate, and expect to continue to generate, a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price contracts. For the transition period ended December 31, 2009, and in the period since then, all of our revenues were derived from fixed-price contracts. The terms of these contracts require us to complete the delivery of equipment and machinery for a fixed price and therefore expose us to cost overruns. Cost overruns, whether due to inefficiency, inaccurate estimates or other factors, result in lower profit or a loss on a contract. As a result, we will only realize profits on these contracts if we successfully estimate our costs and avoid cost overruns. Other variations and risks inherent in the performance of fixed price contracts, such as delays caused by technical issues, any inability to obtain the requisite permits and approvals, may cause our actual overall risks and costs to differ from our original estimates despite any buffer we may have built into our bids for increases in labor and material costs. While there have only been two occasions involving small projects where our costs have equaled or exceeded our revenues from the project, as a project based company, we anticipate, from time to time, encountering cost overruns or delays on our current and future contracts. If such cost overruns or delays occur, we could experience an increase in cost exceeding our budget or be subject to penalties with a consequent reduction in, or elimination of, the profits on our contracts. 7 Some of our contracts contain price adjustment clauses, which allow us to recoup additional costs incurred as a result of unexpected increases in raw material costs. However, we are typically required to bear a portion of the increased costs. From time to time, we may be required to perform extra or “change order” work under our contracts despite the absence of prior agreements with our customers on the scope or price of the work to be performed. Even though our contracts generally contain adjustment clauses for customers to pay for the extra work, we may be required to fund the cost of such work until the change order is approved and funded by the customer. We account for the costs of contract performance pending approval and funding of a change order by a customer by temporarily recording such costs as deferred cost and then adjusting to cost of sales in the period when revisions to a sale contract are determined. In addition, the performance of the extra work may cause delays in our other contract commitments and may have a negative impact on our ability to meet specified deadlines. We rely on third parties to complete part of our equipment manufacturing, which may be adversely affected by the sub-standard performance or non-performance of such third parties. We typically engage third-party subcontractors to perform a portion of the work under our contracts, in order to minimize the need to employ a large workforce that includes skilled labor and semi-skilled labor, as well as to maximize our-cost efficiency and flexibility. However, we may not be able to monitor the performance of these subcontractors as efficiently as our own in-house staff. In addition, our inability to engage qualified subcontractors could affect our ability to maintain the quality of our products. Subcontracting exposes us to risks associated with non-performance, delayed performance, or sub-standard performance by subcontractors. We may also suffer losses or a lesser profit margin if the amounts we pay our subcontractors exceeds our original estimates. As a result, we may experience deterioration in quality or delays with respect to the delivery of our equipment, incur additional costs due to the delays or at a higher price in sourcing the services, or be subject to liability under the relevant contract for our subcontractor’s performances. Such events could impact upon our profitability, financial performance and reputation, and result in litigation or damage claims. We may experience delays in collecting accounts receivable, receiving progress payments or the release of retention money by our customers, which may affect our liquidity. Like other companies in the construction and construction equipment industry in China, we typically receive progress payments from our customers with reference to the value of work completed at specified milestones, as well as receiving final payments upon the delivery of complete equipment. We receive installment payments in the process of equipment manufacturing and usually a significant percentage of contract value would be billed upon the delivery of the equipment to our customers. Usually, we are either requested by our customers to secure a letter of credit issued by a licensed commercial bank or a portion of the contract value is withheld by the customer as retention money, normally 5% to 10%, to be paid or released after the warranty period (generally one year after the completion of the respective equipment and products). In the event that we encounter delays or defaults in the payment of accounts receivable or progress payments by our customers, we may be required to invest working capital to maintain our day to day operations. There can be no assurance that amounts due under accounts receivable, progress payments or retention money will be remitted by our customers on a timely basis or that those delays or defaults in payment will not affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our revenues depend on gaining new customers and we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Our revenues result from individual equipment sales, which produce limited amount of ongoing revenues from equipment maintenance and other services. In order to maintain and expand our business, we must be able to replenish new orders in our pipeline on a continuous basis. Our potential customers could choose products of our competitors instead. Should they do so, we could suffer a decline in revenues and profitability. 8 We expect to rely increasingly on our proprietary products and if we become involved in an intellectual property dispute, we may be forced to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to resolve such intellectual property dispute, diverting time and resources away from our business and operations. Our business is based on a number of proprietary products, which are protected by patents filed in the PRC. We expect our future growth will rely on these proprietary products to meet customers’ demands. For example, given the expansion of China’s rail system into mountainous and heavily forested areas, we expect that sales of our integrated launching gantry, which is designed and well suited for such terrain, to represent an increasing portion of our overall sales in the next several years. However, if third parties should infringe on any of our intellectual property rights, regarding the patents on our integrated launching gantry, or other products, as has happened on several occasions, we may need to devote significant time and financial resources in legal actions brought through the China court system to attempt to halt the infringement. For example, there is currently one ongoing lawsuit in the Beijing appeals court which we have filed in connection with infringements of our patents. An earlier ruling of this lawsuit ended in our favor, whereby the Beijing court awarded us RMB 1.0 million. A second lawsuit that is also being heard by a court in Beijing, was recently settled, whereby we agreed to grant the infringing party the use of our patent in return for it entering into a multi-year contract with us. Conversely, in the event of an infringement claim by third parties against us, we may be required to spend a significant amount of time and financial resources to defend against such claim. However we may not always be successful in lawsuits which we initiate or in defending ourselves against claims made against us by others. Moreover, any litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources and could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We currently rely upon receiving an adequate supply of raw materials at acceptable prices and quality in a timely manner. The success of our operations depends on our ability to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and supplies at acceptable prices and quality in a timely manner. We have historically relied on a few suppliers and should we subsequently lose any of these suppliers, we will be forced to seek other suppliers. Such suppliers may be difficult to replace. We are exposed to the market risk of fluctuations in certain commodity prices for raw materials and supplies, such as steel and electronic parts utilized in our products. The price and availability of such raw materials and supplies may vary significantly from year to year due to factors such as China’s import restrictions, consumer demand, producer capacity, market conditions and costs of materials. We do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers or guarantees of supply. Should the prices of raw materials rise, we may experience lower than expected profit margins on our existing contracts. We may be exposed to potential product liability claims, which may affect our profitability and result in damages to our reputation. A majority of our products are large scale heavy duty machines, which require skilled labor to operate. Failures in the design, quality control, installation and assembly, and operation of these machines, as well as accidents, geological catastrophes and other construction field hazards, may result in injuries to personnel, losses of lives and damages to property despite repeated testing by us before and after delivery of these machines to our customers. Existing PRC laws and regulations do not require us to maintain third party liability insurance to cover product liability claims and we currently do not carry product liability insurance. In the event a product liability claim is brought against us, the lawsuit may, regardless of merit or eventual outcome, result in damages to our reputation, loss of contracts, inhibit our ability to win future contracts, and lead to substantial costs in litigation, product recalls and loss of revenue. China’s financial markets are not as sophisticated as markets in developed countries and regions, such as the United States, European Union, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Singapore. The choice and selection of insurance policies to cover the potential liability of our products may not be widely available, which may result in our inability to obtain adequate insurance coverage against product liability risks. 9 Our success depends on stringent quality controls and timely delivery of our products, and failure in such could adversely impact our financial performance and result in damages to our reputation. We design, manufacture and install our products based on the specific requirements of each customer. Our ability in obtaining future orders depends upon our ability to maintain and uphold the performance, reliability and quality standards required by our customers. We may experience delays in the collection of accounts receivables, additional expenses in warranty and maintenance services, and reduced, cancelled or discontinued orders. Additionally, performance, reliability or quality claims by our customers, with or without merit, could result in costly and time-consuming litigation, which would require significant time and attention of management and may result in significant monetary damages. We depend upon customers concentrated in the infrastructure construction industry. A reduction in government spending in infrastructure development could adversely affect our performance. From a macro-economic perspective, a major risk we face is the relatively large reliance on the PRC government's investment in transportation and infrastructure sectors. The PRC government's judgment on the national economic conditions and expectations on the economic development trend together with the utilization status of existing infrastructures and the expected needs for future expansion, may result in changes in public budget for infrastructure development, especially in the investment scale in transport infrastructure such as railways and highways, and in the outsourcing volume of infrastructure construction projects by the government bodies, which may pose an adverse impact on our business volume. The majority of our sales are generated from customers involved in the construction of railways and highways. In particular, China Railway Construction Corporation, China Railway Group Limited, China Communications Company Limited and Sinohydro Corporation have accounted for a sizeable portion of our total revenues in recent years. For example, in the four months ended December 31, 2009, China Communications Group accounted for 98% of our total sales. In the four months ended December 31, 2008, China Railway Group accounted for 69% of our total sales. In the year August 31, 2009, China Communications Group and China Railway Group accounted for 46% and 16%, respectively, of our total sales. In the year ended August 31, 2008, China Communications Group, China Railway Construction Corporation, China Railway Group and CRCC (12th bureau) represented 26%, 20%, 15% and 13%, respectively, of our total sales. Any reduction or delay in the capital spending by these companies or in the PRC’s infrastructure development could cause a significant decline in our sales and profitability. Our current products are custom-made for specific projects. A majority of our revenues is non-recurring, which provides no guarantee of future success. We are a solution provider of customized heavy duty large scale equipment for infrastructure construction projects. Each of our products is relatively unique to the construction projects in which it is designed to operate. Although most designs provide flexibility and capacity to be modified, we are usually engaged by our customer on a per project basis. Thus, a majority of our sales are non-recurring in nature and often do not result in repetitive purchases. For example, in the year ended August 31, 2009, approximately 89% of our contracts were considered non-recurring in nature. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our sales and profitability are sustainable in the future. Our plans to enter the international construction machinery and equipment market may not prove successful. To date, we have conducted the majority of our business within China. We have been exploring business opportunities in selected markets outside China and strategically expanding our global footprint. Expansion into new markets outside China exposes us to substantial risks, such as currency fluctuations, regulatory problems, punitive tariffs, trade embargoes, differences in general business environments, higher competition from established incumbent players in these markets, legal and regulatory requirements, potential adverse tax consequences, insufficient experience dealing with local payment and business practices, competition and protectionism. In addition, the additional demands on our management from these activities may detract from efforts in the domestic Chinese market, causing our operating results in China to be adversely affected. 10 We may not be able to retain, recruit and train adequate management and engineering personnel, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may limit our developments. Our success is dependent to a large extent on our ability to retain the services of our executive management personnel, who have contributed to our growth and expansion. The industry experience of our executive officers, directors and other members of our senior management is essential to our continuing success. Accordingly, the loss of their services, particularly those of Mr. Yabin Liu and Mr. Fude Zhang, may be difficult to replace and could have an adverse affect on our operations and future business prospects. In addition, our continued operations are dependent upon our ability to identify and recruit adequate engineering personnel in China. We require trained graduates of varying levels of experience and a flexible work force of semi-skilled operators. Given the current rate of economic growth in China, competition for qualified personnel will be substantial. Wage rates that we must offer our employees to retain qualified personnel may not enable us to remain competitive. Wowjoint currently enjoys certain preferential tax treatment in China; there can be no assurance that this will continue. Pursuant to the PRC Income Tax Laws, prior to January 1, 2008, Chinese companies were subject to Enterprise Income Taxes (“EIT”) at a statutory rate of 33%, which consisted of 30% national income tax and 3% local income tax. Beginning January 1, 2008, the new EIT law replaced the existing laws for Domestic Enterprises (“DES”) and Foreign Invested Enterprises (“FIEs”). The new standard EIT rate of 25% replaced the 33% rate currently applicable to both DES and FIEs, except for High Tech companies who pay a reduced rate of 15%. Companies established before March 16, 2007 will continue to enjoy tax holiday treatment approved by local government for a grace period of the next five years or until the tax holiday term is completed, whichever is sooner. We currently qualify as a High Technology company which is available to companies that consistently invest in the research and development of new technology or products or own proprietary intellectual property rights in key areas supported by the PRC government, and meet certain minimum revenue and employment requirements. As a result, we are entitled to preferential tax treatment and enjoy the benefit of a reduced income tax rate at 15%. We have received a 50% tax exemption (Tax Exemption Certificate) from the tax authorities in the PRC for corporate enterprise income tax for the years ended August 31, 2007 through August 31, 2009. The approved income tax rate for the company is 7.5%. The reduced income tax rate was applicable until December 31, 2009. Our current income tax rate is 15%. Our business and financial performance may be adversely affected if the PRC government reduces or postpones public spending on infrastructure construction. Our largest customers are business entities such as project and construction companies established and directed by the central and local governments of the PRC. The future growth of the infrastructure construction industry in China depends primarily upon the continued need for major infrastructure projects. The nature, extent and timing of those projects will, however, be determined by the interplay of a variety of factors, including the PRC government’s spending on infrastructure in China, as well as the general conditions and prospects for China’s economy. Since the majority of funding for infrastructure construction projects in China comes from governmental budgets, implementation of the projects relies, to a significant degree, on the PRC government’s public policies and spending. Changes in public policies or government budgets may therefore impact our business operations and financial performance. 11 The PRC government’s spending on infrastructure has historically been, and will continue to be, cyclical in nature and vulnerable to China’s economic growth and direction. The PRC government has, in recent years, implemented various policies in an effort to control the growth rate of certain industries and to limit inflation, which has affected the level of public spending on infrastructure construction projects. A significant decrease or delay in public spending on infrastructure construction in China could reduce the number of available construction projects, which in turn could reduce the demand for heavy duty construction equipment, and thus reduce the market demand for our core business. If we cannot compete successfully for market share against other non-standard construction equipment and machinery companies, we may not achieve sufficient revenues and our business could suffer. The market for our products and services is characterized by intense competition and rapid technological advances. Our products and services compete with a multitude of products and services developed, manufactured and marketed by others. We will also compete with new market entrants in the future. Existing or future competing products may be of higher quality, contain more sophisticated technology, provide greater utility or lower costs and other benefits, or may offer comparable performance at a lower cost. We must therefore continue to develop innovative new solutions and products for our customers to remain competitive. If our products fail to capture and maintain market share, we may not achieve sufficient product revenues, and our business could suffer. We are subject to increasing environmental regulations Our facilities, operations and products are subject to increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations governing emissions to air, discharges to water and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of general, non-hazardous and hazardous waste materials. While we believe we are in compliance in all material respects with these environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be adversely affected by costs, liabilities or claims with respect to existing or subsequently acquired operations or under present laws and regulations or those that may be adopted or imposed in the future. Wowjoint may face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks, which could adversely affect our operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the outbreak of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or another epidemic. From time to time, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in China or elsewhere in Asia may have a material and adverse effect on our business operations. Risks to Our Organization Affiliates of Realink Group Limited, or Realink, beneficially own a majority of our voting shares. Affiliates of Realink Group Limited, or Realink, may be deemed to beneficially own approximately 54.7% of our voting power. Because of its control of our voting power, Realink is able to indirectly exert considerable influence and control over us, including the appointment of management and the outcome of all matters requiring shareholder approval. Realink’s affiliates may be able to cause, prevent or delay a change of control of us or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us. In addition, because affiliates of Realink may substantially determine the outcome of a shareholder vote, Realink’s affiliates could deprive shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of us, and that voting control could ultimately affect the market price of our ordinary shares. 12 Prior to China Fundamental’s acquisition of Beijing Wowjoint in February 2010, China Fundamental had no operations, and Beijing Wowjoint had not operated as a public company. Fulfilling our obligations incidental to being a public company has been, and will continue to be, expensive and time consuming. Prior to China Fundamental’s acquisition of Beijing Wowjoint in February 2010, China Fundamental had no operations, and Beijing Wowjoint had not operated as a public company. Each of China Fundamental and Beijing Wowjoint had maintained relatively small finance and accounting staffs. Although China Fundamental had maintained disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as required under the Federal securities laws with respect to its very limited activities, it has not been required to maintain and establish these disclosure controls and procedures and internal control as will be required with respect to a business such as Beijing Wowjoint with its substantial operations. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), we have been implementing additional corporate governance practices and adhering to a variety of reporting requirements and complex accounting rules. Compliance with these obligations has required significant management time, placed significant additional demands on our finance and accounting staffs and on our financial, accounting and information systems, and has significantly increased our insurance, legal and financial compliance costs and other expenses. In addition, we have also been implementing corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these and other rules and regulations applicable to public companies to increase our accounting, legal and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. While we cannot yet accurately predict the full extent of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs, we anticipate that our additional annual cash needs as a result of being a public company will exceed US$1 million per annum. We have also been required to hire additional accounting and financial staff since the acquisition, including a new chief financial officer and comptroller, with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, resulting in higher expenses. If we are unable to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, then we may not be able to obtain the reports from our independent registered public accountant required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which may preclude us from keeping our filings with the SEC current. Non-current reporting companies are subject to various restrictions and penalties. We must comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a relatively short timeframe, which will require us to document and test our internal controls over financial reporting for fiscal 2010 and beyond. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect our future results of operations and stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to document and test the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with an established control framework and to report on our management’s conclusion as to the effectiveness of these internal controls over financial reporting beginning with the fiscal year 2010. Any delays or difficulty in satisfying these requirements could adversely affect future results of operations and our share price. We may also incur significant costs to comply with these requirements. We may in the future discover areas of internal controls over financial reporting that need improvement. There can be no assurance that remedial measures will result in adequate internal controls over financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement the required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our securities. In addition, failure to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. 13 The price of our securities may continue to be volatile and may decrease in response to various factors, which could adversely affect our business and cause our shareholders to suffer significant losses. Our securities are illiquid, and the prices of such securities have been and may continue to be volatile in the indefinite future. Only a limited market has developed for the purchase and sale of our securities. We cannot predict how liquid the market for our securities might become. Therefore, the purchase of our securities must be considered a long-term investment acceptable only for prospective investors who are willing and can afford to accept and bear the substantial risk of the investment for an indefinite period of time. Because there is a limited public market for the resale of our securities, investors in our securities may not be able to liquidate their investments, and our securities may not be acceptable as collateral for a loan. Since trading of our ordinary shares began on May 16, 2008, the high and low sale prices of our ordinary shares through November 5, 2010 were $8.00 and $2.50, and the high and low prices of our warrants for the same period were $2.10 and $0.05, respectively. The price of our securities could fluctuate widely in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: · changes in our industry; · competitive pricing pressures; · our ability to obtain working capital or financing; · additions or departures of key personnel; · limited “public float” in the hands of a small number of persons, whose sales or lack of sales could result in positive or negative pricing pressure on the market price for our shares; · sales of our shares; · our ability to execute our business plan; · operating results which fall below expectations due to lower than expected revenues, higher than anticipated expenses or other factors; · loss of any strategic relationship; · economic and other external factors; and · period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations which are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our securities. 14 Because we do not intend to pay dividends on our shares, shareholders will benefit from an investment in our shares only if our shares appreciate in value. We currently intend to retain all future earnings, if any, for use in the operations and expansion of our business. As a result, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of cash dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on factors our board of directors deem relevant, including among others, our results of operations, financial condition and cash requirements, business prospects, and the terms of our credit facilities and other financing arrangements. Accordingly, realization of a gain on shareholders’ investments will depend on the appreciation of the price of our shares. There is no guarantee that our shares will appreciate in value. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of our ordinary shares may cause the price of our securities to decline. The ability of our security holders to sell substantial amounts of our securities in the public market creates a circumstance commonly referred to as an “overhang” and in anticipation of significant sales the market price of our securities could fall. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to raise additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Exercise of our outstanding warrants could decrease our share price. If our outstanding warrants are exercised, the underlying ordinary shares will be eligible for future resale in the public market. “Market overhang” from the warrants may cause investors to assume that there will be additional ordinary shares outstanding that were purchased at the warrant exercise price, which that will likely be below our then current share price. That possibility could reduce the market price of our ordinary shares. Prior to the consummation of its initial public offering, China Fundamental issued 1,944,444 warrants at a price of $0.90 to affiliates of the management of China Fundamental and other institutional investors. The shares underlying the private placement warrants are being registered pursuant to a registration statement on Form F-1, initially filed with the SEC on May 3, 2010, and the prospect that these warrants may be exercised for $5.00 may reduce the market price at which the our ordinary shares trade. In addition 1,064,063 ordinary shares and the same number of warrants which were originally purchased by China Fundamental’s management prior to the initial public offering were held in escrow until August 22, 2010 (i.e., six months after the closing of the business combination). The release and registration of these securities have increased our public “float”, which may cause a decrease in our share price. Outstanding private placement warrants to purchase an aggregate of 1,944,444 ordinary shares became exercisable after the business combination on February 22, 2010. If they are exercised, a substantial additional number of our ordinary shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, which may reduce the market price. If certain performance targets are met, up to 500,000 earn-out shares will be issuable. “Market overhang” from these ordinary shares as a result of that potential dilution could reduce the market price of the ordinary shares. If certain performance targets are met, up to 500,000 earn-out shares will be issuable to the shareholders of Realink. In particular, · 200,000 earn-out shares will be issued in the event that our closing price per share is at or above $10.00 for 180 days out of 360 days during the period from the acquisition closing date to the second anniversary of the closing date. · 200,000 earn-out shares will be issued in the event that our closing price per share is at or above $13.80 for 180 days out of 360 days during the period from the acquisition closing date to the third anniversary of the closing date. 15 · 100,000 earn-out shares will be issued in the event that our average daily trading volume is no less than 200,000 ordinary shares for three consecutive months during the period from the closing date of the acquisition to the second anniversary of the closing date. If these shares are issued, a substantial additional number of our ordinary shares will be eligible for resale in the public market, which may reduce the market price for our securities. We may choose to redeem our outstanding warrants at a time that is disadvantageous to the warrant holders. Subject to there being a current prospectus under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, we may redeem all of our outstanding warrants at any time at a price of $.01 per warrant, upon a minimum of 30 days prior written notice of redemption if, and only if, the last sale price of our shares equals or exceeds $10.00 per share for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading day period ending three business days before we send the notice of redemption. Calling all of our outstanding warrants for redemption could force the warrant holders: · to exercise the warrants and pay the exercise price for such warrants at a time when it may be disadvantageous for the holders to do so; · to sell the warrants at the then current market price when they might otherwise wish to hold the warrants; or · to accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the warrants are called for redemption, is likely to be substantially less than the market value of the warrants. Our warrant holders may not be able to exercise their warrants, which may create liability for us. Holders of the warrants issued in our initial public offering and private placement will be able to receive ordinary shares upon exercise of the warrants only if (i) a current registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the ordinary shares underlying the warrants is then effective and (ii) such shares are qualified for sale or exempt from qualification under the applicable securities laws of the states in which the various holders of warrants reside. Although we have agreed to use our best efforts to maintain a current registration statement covering the shares underlying the warrants to the extent required by federal securities laws, and we intend to comply with such agreement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. In addition, some states may not permit us to register the shares issuable upon exercise of its warrants for sale. The value of the warrants will be greatly reduced if a registration statement covering the shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants is not kept current or if the securities are not qualified, or exempt from qualification, in the states in which the holders of warrants reside. Holders of warrants who reside in jurisdictions in which the shares underlying the warrants are not qualified and in which there is no exemption will be unable to exercise their warrants and would either have to sell their warrants in the open market or allow them to expire unexercised. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. Since our obligations in this regard are subject to a “best efforts” standard, it is possible that, even if we are able to successfully assert a defense to a claim by warrant holders due to the impossibility of registration, a court may impose monetary damages on us to compensate warrant holders due to the change in circumstances that led to us being unable to fulfill our obligations. 16 The Company may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could subject United States investors in our ordinary shares to adverse tax consequences. Depending upon the value of our ordinary shares and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company (a "PFIC") for United States federal income tax purposes. Because there are uncertainties in the application of the relevant rules and PFIC status is a fact-intensive determination made on an annual basis, there can be no assurance that we are not or will not become classified as a PFIC. If we were to be classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, a U.S. Holder (as defined in "Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations) would be subject to special rules generally intended to reduce or eliminate any benefits from the deferral of United States federal income tax that a U.S. Holder could derive from investing in a non-United States corporation that does not distribute all of its earnings on a current basis. Further, if we are classified as a PFIC for any year during which a U.S. Holder holds our ordinary shares, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for all succeeding years during which such U.S. Holder holds our ordinary shares. For more information see the section titled “Taxation – Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations”. We may be classified as a “resident enterprise” under PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or “EIT Law,” and be subject to PRC taxation on its worldwide income. China passed a new EIT Law effective on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with its “de facto management bodies” located within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementation rules to the EIT law define “de facto management bodies.” Further, on April 22, 2009, the PRC State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice of the State Administration of Taxation on Issues about the Determination of Chinese-controlled Enterprises Registered Abroad as Resident Enterprises on the Basis of their De Facto Management Bodies (“Notice 82”). However it remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret and implement such rules. Our senior management will primarily be located in the PRC, and almost all of our revenues currently arise from our operations in China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income, as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, as well as Notice 82, dividends paid to us are each treated as a “resident enterprise” under EIT Law and may qualify as “tax-exempt income,” and withholding tax may be exempted in this case. However, due to the uncertainty about how the PRC tax authorities will interpret and implement the above-mentioned new rules, such dividends may be subject to withholding tax (generally at a rate of 10% or, if the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with respect to Taxes on Income is applicable, 5%). Finally, the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a 10% PRC tax being imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC security holders that are not PRC tax “resident enterprises” and gains derived by them from transferring our securities, if such income is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC tax authorities. It is unclear how the relevant governmental authorities will interpret and implement the laws and regulations pertaining to offshore and cross-border taxes. Given this uncertainty, there is a risk that we could be subject to unfavorable tax treatment. If any such PRC taxes apply, a non-PRC security holder may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC taxes under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a foreign tax credit against such security holder’s domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). You should consult with your own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available foreign tax credits. 17 ITEM 