D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Global Ship Lease’s $800 million credit facility contains restrictive covenants including a maximum leverage ratio based on borrowings under the credit facility expressed as a percentage of charter free market value of its vessels. Depending on the results of on-going discussions with our lenders and any updated leverage ratio that may be determined at June 30, 2009 the lenders under our credit facility may require us to make a prepayment of our borrowings or provide additional security which would likely cause a default under the credit facility and which would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Global Ship Lease has a $800 million credit facility with Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V., Citibank Global Markets Limited, HSH Nordbank AG, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch, KFW, DnB Nor Bank ASA and Bank of Scotland, which Global Ship Lease used to acquire its fleet and intends to use to acquire additional vessels and fund working capital, among other things. As of December 31, 2008, outstanding borrowings under this facility were $542.1 million. The credit facility contains restrictive covenants including minimum cash, minimum net worth, minimum EBITDA to debt service, maximum net debt to total capital and maximum leverage ratio, which is the ratio of borrowings under credit facility to the market value of security posted, which is essentially the charter-free willing buyer willing seller market value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels. Due to the global economic downturn and significantly reduced demand for container shipping services and thus for containerships, combined with continuing delivery of newbuilds, containership values have experienced dramatic declines in recent months. Purchase and sale transactions in the containership market have been very limited, mostly for small vessels and, in instances where such transactions have been completed, the prices have been significantly lower than comparable transactions in the past. No newbuilding orders have been placed for many months. Many ship brokers are not providing certificates of market value due to the disrupted market. The negative development in perceived market values has caused concern that Global Ship Lease may exceed its maximum 5 Table of Contents permitted leverage ratio under its credit facility which provides that if the leverage ratio exceeds 75%, the Agent may require a prepayment of borrowings or the delivery of additional security to the extent necessary to reduce the leverage ratio to 75%. Accordingly, on February 10, 2009, Global Ship Lease and the lenders entered into an addendum to the credit facility (the “Addendum”) to effect amendments to address these concerns relating to containership market conditions. The Addendum suspended the 75% leverage ratio test for the period between April 30, 2009 and April 30, 2010. In lieu thereof, the Addendum provides that if the leverage ratio exceeds 90% during this period, Global Ship Lease is required to deposit 50% of its cash available for distribution into a pledged account. In addition, the Addendum provides that if the leverage ratio exceeds 100% during this period, the Agent may require a prepayment of borrowings or the delivery of additional security to the extent necessary to reduce the leverage ratio to 100%. On April 29, 2009, due to continuing challenges in the ship valuation environment, Global Ship Lease agreed with its lenders, to waive for two months until June 30, 2009 the requirement under the credit facility to submit vessel valuations and undertake the leverage ratio test. Valuations were otherwise due by April 30, 2009. Global Ship Lease has agreed that it will not declare or pay any dividend to common shareholders during this waiver period. Please see — Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources”. As of the date of this Annual Report, Global Ship Lease is in active discussions with its lenders to obtain a further amendment to the credit facility to address the situation. No assurances can be made as to the outcome of these discussions and we may not be successful in obtaining further covenant waivers or other modifications. Management believes that, if it were possible to obtain up-to-date charter free valuations of its fleet as of the date of this Annual Report, the leverage ratio is likely to exceed 100%. Should an amendment to the credit facility or other relief not be obtained by June 30, 2009 and the leverage ratio is determined to be in excess of 100%, the Agent may require a prepayment of borrowings or the delivery of additional security. In such an event, Global Ship Lease is likely to go into default under the credit facility, which would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Please see — Item 8 “Financial Information — Financial Statements and Other Financial Information — Note 2(a)”. Global Ship Lease may not be able to borrow funds under the credit facility to purchase CMA CGM Berlioz in July 2009 or the two 4,250 teu newbuild containerships in fourth quarter 2009. Global Ship Lease is scheduled to purchase CMA CGM Berlioz in July 2009 for $82 million from CMA CGM and will need to be able to make additional borrowings under the credit facility to effect this purchase. Global Ship Lease is also contracted to purchase two newbuildings in fourth quarter 2010 and will need to pay additional cash consideration of approximately $140 million, after taking account of the 10% deposit already paid, which may also necessitate further borrowings under the credit facility. Global Ship Lease’s ability to borrow further amounts under the credit facility is subject to, among other things, the leverage ratio not exceeding 70%. Global Ship Lease is also discussing with its lenders the possibility of making additional drawings under the credit facility in respect of CMA CGM Berlioz notwithstanding that the leverage ratio is likely to exceed 70% in July 2009 if up-to-date valuations were to be obtained. No assurances can be made as to the outcome of these discussions. If Global Ship Lease is unable to complete the acquisition of the CMA CGM Berlioz, we will be required to reverse the $7.8 million intangible asset and the $10.5 million intangible liability recognized in connection with the acquisition of the contracted fleet of CMA CGM at the time of the merger that occurred on August 14, 2008 through the statement of income, please see — Item 8 “Financial Information — Financial Statements and Other Financial Information — Note 3”. If Global Ship Lease is unable to purchase the two newbuildings in fourth quarter 2010, we will have to write off the $15 million deposit already paid and recognized as an asset in our combined balance sheet. 6 Table of Contents Even if the lenders grant a waiver or other modifications to the credit facility, Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will be able to borrow amounts under its credit facility to pay for any further vessel acquisitions, and restrictive covenants in its credit facility and forthcoming amortization of the total amount that can be borrowed may impose financial and other restrictions on Global Ship Lease, such as limiting its ability to pay dividends. Global Ship Lease’s ability to borrow amounts under the credit facility is subject to compliance with terms and conditions included in the loan documents. Global Ship Lease’s ability to borrow funds from the credit facility to acquire additional vessels and include them in the security package under the credit facility will be dependent on the leverage ratio, whether the purchase of the acquired vessels meets certain financial criteria, and whether the vessels meet certain age and minimum capacity requirements and are to be employed by an acceptable charterer. In addition, as a condition for obtaining financing from its lenders, Global Ship Lease’s vessels need to be certified “in class” and without material overdue recommendations or conditions of class as determined by a member of the International Association of Classification Societies Ltd., or IACS. Additionally, Global Ship Lease’s credit facility provides that it may not pay dividends if there is a continuing default under the facility. Global Ship Lease is prohibited from paying dividends if the payment of the dividend would result in a default and any payments to be made into the retention account are not fully up to date. Global Ship Lease’s ability to declare and pay dividends therefore depends on whether it is in compliance with its credit facility. Global Ship Lease’s credit facility is a revolving credit facility and it may be required to make repayments under the facility although these repayments may be redrawn. The charter free market value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels can fluctuate substantially depending on market supply and demand for vessels. In recent months, due to an excess of containership capacity as described above, vessel values have fallen significantly. In addition, it is probable that the market value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels will decrease over time, as vessels generally decrease in value as they age. Consequently, the leverage ratio is volatile and will likely increase over time, which will negatively affect Global Ship Lease’s ability to comply with its leverage ratio covenants. This, in turn, will impact Global Ship Lease’s ability to pay dividend payments. In addition, in December 2011, four years from the date of the closing of the credit facility, the amounts available for borrowing will be permanently reduced each quarter. Therefore, unless Global Ship Lease is able to use other sources or refinance borrowings under its credit facility with new indebtedness that has a later maturity date, following four years after the date of the closing of the credit facility, the amount of cash that Global Ship Lease will have available in any period will be decreased by the amount of any principal repayments that it is required to make. The credit facility also imposes additional operating and financial restrictions on Global Ship Lease. These restrictions may limit its ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness in the vessel owning subsidiaries, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the management of its vessels without the prior consent of the lender; • permit liens on its assets; • sell its vessels or change the ownership of its subsidiaries; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all its assets to, another person; and • enter into certain types of charters. Therefore, Global Ship Lease may need to seek consent from its lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Its lenders’ interests may be different from Global Ship Lease’s and it cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain its lenders’ consent when needed. This may limit its ability to pay dividends, finance its future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Please see Item 4B “Business Overview—Global Ship Lease Credit Facility” for more information. 7 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under its credit facility. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that, when required, it will be able to refinance its indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to Global Ship Lease or at all. The actual or perceived credit quality of its charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of its fleet, among other things, may materially affect its ability to obtain new or replacement debt financing. If Global Ship Lease is not able to refinance its indebtedness, it will have to dedicate a portion of its cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of its indebtedness. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If Global Ship Lease is not able to satisfy its debt service obligations with its cash flow from operations, Global Ship Lease may have to sell some or all of its assets, which may not be possible and which would have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations. If Global Ship Lease is unable to meet its debt obligations for any reason, its lenders could declare its debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on vessels in its fleet which are mortgaged as part security for the debt, which could result in the acceleration of other indebtedness that Global Ship Lease may have at such time and the commencement of similar foreclosure proceedings by other lenders. Global Ship Lease is highly dependent on CMA CGM. All of Global Ship Lease’s vessels in its fleet are chartered to its initial Charterer, CMA CGM. The initial Charterer’s payments to Global Ship Lease under the charters are currently its sole source of revenue. Global Ship Lease is highly dependent on the performance by the Charterer of its obligation under the charters. The container shipping industry is suffering a significant cyclical downturn with a substantial amount of excess ship capacity and many container shipping companies have reported substantial losses for first quarter 2009. If the initial Charterer ceases doing business or fails to perform its obligations under Global Ship Lease’s charters, Global Ship Lease’s business, financial position and cash available for the payment of dividends would be materially adversely affected as it is probable that, even if we were able to find replacement charters, such replacement charters would be at lower daily rates and shorter durations. Moreover, under its ship management agreement with CMA Ships, the Ship Manager is obligated to provide Global Ship Lease with requisite financial information so that Global Ship Lease can meet its own reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. CMA CGM has guaranteed the performance of CMA Ships and any payments due to Global Ship Lease under the ship management agreements. CMA CGM and CMA Ships are privately held French corporations with financial reporting schedules different from Global Ship Lease. If CMA CGM, CMA Ships or any of their subsidiaries is delayed in providing Global Ship Lease with key financial information, Global Ship Lease could fail to meet its financial reporting deadlines. Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager and CMA CGM, its initial Charterer, are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. CMA CGM is Global Ship Lease’s initial sole Charterer and its wholly owned subsidiary, CMA Ships, is Global Ship Lease’s initial Ship Manager. CMA CGM’s ability to continue to pay charterhire and CMA Ships’ ability to render ship management services will depend in part on their own financial strength. Circumstances beyond their control could impair CMA CGM’s and CMA Ships’ financial strength, and because they are privately held companies, information about the financial strength of their companies is not publicly available. As a result, Global Ship Lease and an investor in its securities might have little advance warning of financial or other problems affecting CMA CGM or their wholly owned subsidiaries even though their financial or other problems could have a material adverse effect on Global Ship Lease. 8 Table of Contents CMA CGM and Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager have conflicts of interest with Global Ship Lease and limited contractual duties, which may make them favor their own interests to Global Ship Lease’s detriment. Conflicts of interest may arise between Global Ship Lease, on the one hand, and CMA CGM, Global Ship Lease’s initial Charterer, and CMA Ships, its Ship Manager, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager may favor its own or its parent company’s interests over Global Ship Lease’s interests. These conflicts may have unfavorable consequences for Global Ship Lease. For example, Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager could be encouraged to incur unnecessary costs, for which it would seek reimbursement from Global Ship Lease. Although Global Ship Lease’s ship management agreements expressly prohibit its Ship Manager from giving preferential treatment when performing any of its ship management services to any other vessel that is affiliated with it, or otherwise controlled by CMA CGM, conflicts of interest may arise between Global Ship Lease, and its Ship Manager and its initial Charterer. CMA CGM could compete with Global Ship Lease. Along with many other vessel-owning transportation companies, CMA CGM, currently Global Ship Lease’s sole Charterer and largest holder of its common shares, could compete with Global Ship Lease in its search to purchase newbuildings and secondhand vessels. Further, CMA CGM is not precluded from acting as an owner in the direct chartering market. While Global Ship Lease understands that CMA CGM currently has no intention of doing so, competition from CMA CGM may potentially harm Global Ship Lease’s ability to grow the business and may decrease its results of operations. Certain terms in Global Ship Lease’s agreements with CMA CGM and its affiliates may be the result of negotiations that were not conducted at arms-length and may not reflect market standard terms. In addition, they may include terms that may not be obtained from future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The asset purchase agreement, the charters, the ship management agreements and the other contractual agreements Global Ship Lease entered into with CMA CGM and its wholly owned subsidiaries were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and were negotiated in the overall context of the previously contemplated public offering of its Class A common shares in 2007, the Merger in August 2008 and other related transactions. Global Ship Lease’s agreements with CMA CGM may include terms that could not have been obtained from arms-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services and assets. As a result, its future operating results may be negatively affected if Global Ship Lease does not receive terms as favorable in future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties or has to enter into lengthy and costly negotiations with third parties in connection with entering into such agreements. Global Ship Lease’s growth depends on its ability to maintain and expand its relationship with CMA CGM and obtain new charterers, for which Global Ship Lease will face substantial competition. One of Global Ship Lease’s objectives is to acquire additional vessels and charter them out to container shipping companies as charterers. The process of obtaining new charterers is highly competitive and often takes several months. Charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel owner, including: • competitiveness of overall price; • containership experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • shipping industry relationships and reputation for reliability, customer service and safety; • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • the ability to finance containerships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths for newbuildings; and • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications. 9 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease expects substantial competition in expanding its business, including with respect to obtaining new containership charters, from a number of experienced and substantial companies. Many of these competitors currently have significantly greater financial resources than Global Ship Lease does, and can therefore operate larger fleets and may be able to offer better charter rates. There may be an increasing number of owners with vessels available for charter, including many with strong reputations and extensive resources and experience. This increased competition may cause greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, Global Ship Lease may be unable to maintain or expand its relationships with CMA CGM or to obtain new charterers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Ship Lease may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from vessel acquisitions, and implementing its growth strategy through acquisitions may harm its business, financial condition and operating results. Global Ship Lease’s growth strategy includes, among other things, selectively acquiring newbuildings and secondhand vessels. Growing any business through acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and obtaining the necessary resources to manage an enlarged business. Global Ship Lease cannot give any assurance that it will be successful in executing its growth plans, that Global Ship Lease will be able to employ acquired vessels under long-term charters or have ship management agreements with similar or better terms than those Global Ship Lease has obtained from its Ship Manager or that it will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with its future growth. Factors that may limit Global Ship Lease’s ability to acquire additional vessels include shipyard capacity for newbuildings, the relatively small number of independent fleet owners and the limited number of modern vessels with appropriate characteristics not subject to existing long-term or other charters. Competition from other purchasers could reduce Global Ship Lease’s acquisition opportunities or cause Global Ship Lease to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel may not be profitable to Global Ship Lease and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify Global Ship Lease’s investment. In addition, Global Ship Lease’s acquisition growth strategy exposes Global Ship Lease to risks that may harm its business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that Global Ship Lease may: • fail to obtain financing, ship management agreements and charters on acceptable terms; • be unable, including through its ship managers, to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate its growing business and fleet; • fail to realize anticipated benefits of cost savings or cash flow enhancements; • decrease its liquidity by using a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase its interest expense or financial leverage if Global Ship Lease incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the vessels acquired; or • not be able to pay dividends. Unlike newbuildings, secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition at the time of acquisition. While Global Ship Lease would generally inspect existing containerships prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide Global Ship Lease with as much knowledge of a containership’s condition as if it had been built for Global Ship Lease and operated by Global Ship Lease during its life. Future repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for equivalent vessels of which Global Ship Lease has had direct experience. These additional costs could decrease Global Ship Lease’s cash flow and reduce its liquidity. 10 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease’s business depends upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with Global Ship Lease. Global Ship Lease’s future success depends to a significant extent upon its Chief Executive Officer, Ian J. Webber, its Chief Financial Officer, Susan J. Cook, its Chief Commercial Officer, Thomas A. Lister and its Chief Technical Officer, Vivek Puri. Mr. Webber, Ms. Cook, Mr. Lister and Mr. Puri have an aggregate of over 80 years of experience in the shipping industry and have worked with several of the world’s largest shipping companies. They and members of the board of directors are crucial to the execution of its business strategies and to the growth and development of its business. If these individuals were no longer to be affiliated with Global Ship Lease, or if Global Ship Lease were to otherwise cease to receive advisory services from them, Global Ship Lease may be unable to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, and its business and financial condition may suffer as a result. Global Ship Lease is a recently formed company with limited separate operating history and its historical financial and operating data may not be representative of its future results. Global Ship Lease is a recently formed company with limited operating history. The historical combined financial statements included in this Annual Report include, mainly as comparatives, its predecessor’s historical business activities as a container shipping company earning revenue from transporting shipper’s cargo and incurring both vessel and voyage expenses, including all costs related to handling of shippers’ cargoes for its vessels while they were owned and operated by CMA CGM until the date of the individual transfer of each of 10 vessels in December 2007 and two further vessels in January 2008. These combined financial statements reflect only the results of Global Ship Lease under its fixed-rate long-term charters, ship management agreements and its financing arrangements only from the date of the individual transfer of each vessel in December 2007 and January 2008. Further, Global Ship Lease’s capital and legal structure changed significantly as a result of the Merger in August 2008, including it becoming listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Consequently, historical financial information is not a meaningful representation of its future results of operations. Global Ship Lease has not performed and does not intend to perform underwater inspections of its vessels. Although Global Ship Lease has performed physical inspections of the vessels, Global Ship Lease has not performed and does not intend to perform any underwater inspections either prior to or after their delivery. As a result, Global Ship Lease will not be aware of any damage to a vessel that may exist at the time of delivery and which could only be discovered through an underwater inspection. Global Ship Lease has agreed to purchase the vessels and newbuildings on an “as is” basis, subject to CMA CGM being responsible for any class condition or recommendation that is found to have existed at the date of delivery of the vessels. However, if any damage is subsequently found, Global Ship Lease could incur substantial costs to repair the damage. Delays in the deliveries of contracted vessels could harm its operating results. Global Ship Lease has agreed to acquire one secondhand vessel, expected to be delivered in July 2009, and two newbuildings, expected to be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2010. The delivery of any of these vessels could be delayed and any delay could negatively affect its operating results. The delivery of the secondhand vessel could be delayed because of, among other things: • hostilities or political disturbances; • non-performance on the vessel sale agreement by CMA CGM; 11 Table of Contents • having an outstanding recommendation or condition of class attached to it or a suspension from class that would require, pursuant to its asset purchase agreement, CMA CGM to remedy such recommendation or condition of class prior to delivering the vessel to Global Ship Lease; • inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals; or • damage to or destruction of the vessel while being operated by the seller prior to the delivery date. The delivery of newbuildings could be delayed for a number of reasons, including: • a worsening of the business relationship, or a contractual dispute, between the parties to the building contract that would slow or stop the building or delivery of the newbuildings; • non performance by any of the parties to the ship building contracts, vessel sale agreements or charters; • work stoppages or other labor disturbances or other events that disrupt shipyard operations; • quality or engineering problems; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; • bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipyard or of the owner who has ordered the two vessels to be built; • a backlog of orders at the shipyard; • hostilities, political or economic disturbances in the regions where the newbuildings are being built; • weather interference or catastrophic event, such as a major earthquake or fire; • requests for changes to the original specifications of the newbuildings; • shortages of or delays in the receipt of necessary construction materials, such as steel; or • inability to obtain requisite permits or approvals; Ship building contracts for newbuildings typically contain a “force majeure” provision whereby the occurrence of certain events could delay delivery or possibly terminate the contract. Any termination of the ship building contract, or any delay in the delivery of contracted vessels, will eliminate or postpone Global Ship Lease’s receipt of revenues under the time charters for those vessels and may permanently reduce its actual and projected revenues, and would therefore adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition, and may negatively affect its stock price. Global Ship Lease is a holding company and it depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to Global Ship Lease in order to satisfy its financial and other obligations. Global Ship Lease is a holding company and has no significant assets other than the equity interests in its subsidiaries. Global Ship Lease’s subsidiaries own all of its vessels and payments under charters are made to its subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to pay dividends depends on the performance of its subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to it. The ability of its subsidiaries to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands law or the laws of any jurisdiction which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If Global Ship Lease is unable to obtain funds from its subsidiaries, Global Ship Lease may not be able to pay dividends. 12 Table of Contents As its fleet ages, Global Ship Lease may incur increased operating costs, which could adversely affect its earnings. In general, the day-to-day cost of operating and maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with age. In addition, older vessels are typically less fuel efficient. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards may also require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to its vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which its vessels may engage. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that, as its vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable that it can operate its vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Global Ship Lease’s insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to its property or result from its operations. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks. Although Global Ship Lease carries hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance), Global Ship Lease may not be adequately insured against all risks or its insurers may not pay every claim. Even if its insurance coverage is adequate to cover its losses, Global Ship Lease may not be able to obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a total or constructive loss in a timely manner. Under the terms of its credit facility, Global Ship Lease may be subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds Global Ship Lease may receive from claims under its insurance policies. Furthermore, in the future, Global Ship Lease may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for its fleet. Global Ship Lease may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which Global Ship Lease receives indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. Insurers typically have the right to charge additional premiums if vessels transit certain “excluded areas” which may be subject to higher risk of piracy, war or terrorism. Global Ship Lease cannot be certain that its insurers will continue to provide such cover, or that Global Ship Lease will be able to pass these increased costs to its charterers. Its insurance policies will also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although Global Ship Lease believes are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase its costs. In addition, Global Ship Lease does not presently carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that might occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from an accident. Accordingly, any vessel that is off-hire for an extended period of time, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Ship Lease is incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Global Ship Lease’s corporate affairs are governed by its articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Business Corporations Act of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, Global Ship Lease’s shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 13 Table of Contents Because Global Ship Lease is organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve Global Ship Lease with legal process or enforce judgments against it, its directors or its management. Global Ship Lease is organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of its assets are located outside of the United States. Its principal executive offices are located outside the United States and some of its directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against Global Ship Lease or against its directors or its management in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against Global Ship Lease’s assets or its directors and officers. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will pay any dividends and Global Ship Lease’s dividend policy is subject to change at the discretion of its board of directors. The declaration and payment of dividends is subject at all times to the discretion of Global Ship Lease’s board of directors and are limited by other contractual obligations such as those in the credit facility. To the extent permitted by such contractual obligations, Global Ship Lease intends to distribute a portion of its cash flow to its shareholders, while retaining cash flow for reinvestment in its business. Retained cash flow may be used to fund vessel or fleet acquisitions, make debt repayments and for other purposes, as determined by Global Ship Lease’s management and board of directors. There can be no assurance that its actual results will be as anticipated, that its board of directors will not increase the level of reserves or otherwise change its dividend policy or that Global Ship Lease will not have additional cash expenses or liabilities, including extraordinary expenses. In addition to our current discussions with our lenders and its outcome, the timing and amount of future dividends, if any, could also be affected by various factors, including: • Global Ship Lease’s earnings, financial condition and anticipated cash requirements; • unexpected repairs to, or required capital expenditures on, vessels or drydocking costs in excess of amounts held in reserve; • additional acquisitions of vessels; • the loss of a vessel; • restrictions under its credit facility either now or agreed as part of future waiver discussions including the ratio of drawn debt to current charter-free market value of vessels pledged as security and in any future debt agreements; and • the provisions under Marshall Islands law affecting distributions to shareholders, which generally prohibit the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received from the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such dividend. Global Ship Lease’s ability to pay dividends is limited by Marshall Islands law. In addition to limiting payments of dividends if Global Ship Lease is, or could become, insolvent, Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares). Global Ship Lease has anti-takeover provisions in its organizational documents that may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of Global Ship Lease’s articles of incorporation and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. 14 Table of Contents Certain of these provisions provide for: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restrictions on business combinations with certain interested shareholders; • directors only to be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the common shares entitled to vote in the election of directors; • advance notice for nominations of directors by shareholders and for shareholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; and • a limited ability for shareholders to call special shareholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Global Ship Lease, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. The price of Global Ship Lease’s securities may be volatile. The price of Global Ship Lease’s common shares units and warrants may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; • limited operating history; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • market conditions in the industry; • changes in government regulation; • fluctuations in Global Ship Lease’s quarterly revenues and earnings and those of its publicly held competitors; • shortfalls in Global Ship Lease’s operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • announcements concerning Global Ship Lease or its competitors; and • the general state of the securities markets. The international containership industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in this industry may be equally volatile. There will be a substantial number of Global Ship Lease’s common shares available for sale in the future that may adversely affect the market price of Global Ship Lease’s Class A common shares. The common shares (not including the common shares underlying the sponsors warrants nor the common shares purchased by Mr. Gross and CMA CGM on the closing date of the Merger pursuant to assignment and acceptance agreements with Marathon) issued in the Merger to Marathon’s initial stockholders and CMA CGM are subject to transfer restrictions set forth in the stockholders agreement. Generally, such shares cannot be sold for one year from the date of the Merger, except that CMA CGM is permitted to transfer (i) up to 4,094,600 Class A common shares after the date that is 120 days after the date of the Merger, and (ii) up to 125,000 common shares to its directors and officers. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into at the effective time of the Merger, Marathon’s initial stockholders and CMA CGM can demand that Global Ship Lease register the resale of their common shares at 15 Table of Contents any time after the one year anniversary of the Merger. Holders of the sponsor warrants were also entitled to request at any time after the Merger and did so request that we register the Class A common shares underlying the sponsor warrants on a shelf registration statement. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of Global Ship Lease’s Class A common shares. The outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our shareholders. This might have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Excluding the 5,500,000 sponsor warrants and an aggregate of 6,188,088 Class A warrants owned by CMA CGM, Michael Gross and other initial stockholders of Marathon, there are outstanding public warrants to purchase an aggregate of 39,531,348 Class A common shares. These warrants would likely only be exercised if the $6.00 per share exercise price is below the market price of our Class A common shares. To the extent they are exercised, additional Class A common shares will be issued, which will result in dilution to our shareholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will realize the expected benefits of its agreement to acquire two 4,250 TEU newbuildings scheduled to be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2010. Global Ship Lease has an agreement to acquire two 4,250 TEU newbuildings for approximately $77 million per vessel. The two vessels are scheduled to be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2010 and are expected to be chartered to Zim Integrated Shipping Services Limited for a term of seven to eight years at a net rate of $28,000 per vessel per day. The purchase is subject to the completion of customary documentation and closing conditions. Although Global Ship Lease anticipates that the acquisition will be accretive, Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will realize the expected benefits of the acquisition. Further, it is possible that the shipyard, seller or charterer may fail to perform under the agreements which might result in Global Ship Lease being unable to purchase the vessels, having to write off the $15 million deposit already paid or becoming owners of the vessels with no effective charter in place. Global Ship Lease has swapped the majority of its anticipated core debt from floating rate based on LIBOR to fixed rate debt until at least March 2013 and therefore is locked into a base borrowing rate to which the applicable spread is added to determine the effective rate. Accordingly, Global Ship Lease has removed most of the volatility from its interest charge, other than for changes in the applicable margin, and is unable to benefit from falling LIBOR rates. As part of its risk management strategy and in order to avoid volatility in its interest expense, Global Ship Lease has swapped the majority of its anticipated core debt from floating rate based on LIBOR to fixed rate debt until at least March 2013. Approximately $580 million of debt has been swapped into a fixed rate of 3.59%. Global Ship Lease is therefore unable to benefit from falling LIBOR rates. Depending on fluctuations in LIBOR, our interest rate swap agreements and their accounting treatment in our combined financial statements could result in declines in our net income. We have entered into certain financial instrument contracts to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These derivative instruments are accounted for under the relevant U.S. GAAP guidance at market value, as none of the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, with changes in the mark-to-market being recognized directly in our combined statement of income. During the year ended December 31, 2008, LIBOR and the related forward interest rate curve experienced significant downward movement which significantly impacted the estimated market value of our financial instruments. resulting in a non-cash loss amounting to $54.9 million for the period from August 15, 2008 to December 31, 2008. Future interest rate volatility may expose our net income to significant variations. 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Industry of Global Ship Lease Global Ship Lease’s growth and long term profitability depend mainly upon growth in demand for containerships and the condition of the charter market. The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile and the industry is currently experiencing a severe cyclical downturn. There is an excess of vessel capacity and demand for containerships has fallen. Charter rates and vessel values have dropped, thus reducing its ability to secure new charterers at attractive rates. The container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charterhire rates and profitability. Charterhire rates have decreased significantly and rates may decrease further in the future. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for ship capacity, which is driven mainly by changes in the supply and demand for world trade container shipping services. There is currently an oversupply of ship capacity which has caused freight rates, charter rates and asset values, to fall. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and container shipping services are outside Global Ship Lease’s control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: • supply and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; • changes in global production of products transported by containerships; • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which container cargoes are transported, the size of containerships, and the extent of trans-shipments; • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; • currency exchange rates; and • port and canal congestion. The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: • the containership newbuilding orderbook compared to the existing cellular containership fleet; • the scrapping rate of older containerships; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • changes in environmental and other laws and regulations that may limit the useful life of containerships; • the availability of shipyard capacity; • port and canal congestion; and, 17 Table of Contents • the price of oil and economics of slow steaming. Global Ship Lease’s ability to re-charter its fleet upon the expiration or termination of its charters, and the charter rates receivable under and the duration of any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the then state of the containership market and how the then age and quality of Global Ship Lease’s fleet are perceived by the market. If the containership market is in a period of depression when Global Ship Lease’s vessels’ charters expire for whatever reason, including an oversupply of containership capacity, Global Ship Lease may be forced to re-charter its vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates, which may reduce or eliminate its earnings or make its earnings increasingly volatile, or it may not be able to re-charter its vessels at all. The same issues will exist if Global Ship Lease acquires additional vessels without charter arrangements in place, or at the expiration of such arrangements, obliging Global Ship Lease to try to fix employment of the additional vessels in the spot market while attempting to subject them to a long-term time charter arrangement. If the market value of vessels or charter rates substantially declines then Global Ship Lease may incur a financial loss if it attempts to sell one or more of its vessels. Containership values can fluctuate substantially over time and have recently declined significantly. A number of factors may contribute to a decrease in the market value of containerships, including: • unfavorable economic conditions in the market in which the containership trades; • a substantial or extended decline in world trade growth leading to reduced demand for container shipping services; • increases or an oversupply in global containership capacity; and • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards or otherwise. If a charter terminates when the charter market for containerships is depressed, Global Ship Lease may be unable to re-charter the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, Global Ship Lease may seek to dispose of it. It is likely that in such circumstances asset values will also be depressed. Inability to dispose of the containership at a reasonable price could result in a loss on the vessel’s sale and adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s results of operations and financial condition. Future fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values may trigger a possible impairment of Global Ship Lease’s vessels as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Global Ship Lease—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Charter free market values of Global Ship Lease’s vessels pledged as security under the credit facility may also impact its ability to satisfy its loan-to-value covenants under the credit facility. Global Ship Lease may have more difficulty entering into long-term charters if a more active and cheaper short-term or spot container shipping market develops. At the expiration of Global Ship Lease’s charters, if a charter terminates early for any reason or if Global Ship Lease acquires vessels charter-free, Global Ship Lease will need to charter or re-charter its vessels. Should more vessels be available on the spot or short-term market at the time Global Ship Lease is seeking to fix new long-term charters, Global Ship Lease may have difficulty entering into such charters at profitable rates and for any term other than short term and, as a result, Global Ship Lease’s cash flow may be subject to instability in the long-term. In addition, it would be more difficult to fix relatively older vessels should there be an oversupply of younger vessels on the market. A more active short-term or spot market may require Global Ship Lease to enter into spot or short-term charters based on prevailing market rates, as opposed to long-term contracts based on a fixed rate, which could result in a decrease in Global Ship Lease’s cash flow in periods when charter rates are depressed. 18 Table of Contents Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Piracy is an inherent risk in the operation of ocean-going vessels and has historically affected vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. For example, in November 2008, the M/V Sirius Star, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100 million. The M/V Sirius Star is classified as a very large crude carrier and has the capacity to carry over 2.0 million barrels of crude oil. Pirate attacks on any of our vessels could result in loss of life, the kidnapping of our crew or the theft, damage or destruction of our vessels or of cargo being transported thereon. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, costs, including due to employing onboard security guards, should we so decide, could increase in such circumstances. Any of these events may materially adversely affect our charterers, impairing their ability to make payments to us under our charters. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities could affect its results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and the continuing response of the United States and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect Global Ship Lease’s business, results of operations and financial condition from increased security costs and more rigorous inspection procedures at borders and ports. From time to time acts of terrorism, regional conflict and other armed conflict around the world, may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to Global Ship Lease or at all. Terrorist attacks targeted at oceangoing vessels may also negatively affect Global Ship Lease’s future operations and financial condition from, for example, increased insurance costs, and directly impact its containerships or its customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased market volatility or even a recession in the United States or elsewhere or negatively affect global financial markets, and could further increase inspection and security requirements and regulation that could slow its operations and negatively affect its profitability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on Global Ship Lease’s operating results, revenue and costs. Global Ship Lease’s vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States government, which could negatively affect the trading price of its common shares. From time to time and in relation to its charterers’ business, Global Ship Lease’s vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Syria and Iran. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent Global Ship Lease’s vessels from making calls to ports in these countries, potential investors could view Global Ship Lease’s presence at those ports negatively, which could in turn adversely affect its reputation and the receptiveness of the market for Global Ship Lease’s common shares. Risks inherent in the operation of containerships could impair the ability of the initial Charterer to make payments to Global Ship Lease, increase its costs or reduce the value of Global Ship Lease’s assets. Global Ship Lease’s containerships and its cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine accidents, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, environmental accidents and other circumstances or events. Any of these events connected to Global Ship Lease’s vessels or other vessels under the initial Charterer’s control, or any other factor which negatively affects the initial Charterer’s business such as the current economic downturn and significant cyclical depression in the container shipping industry, could impair the ability of the initial Charterer to make payments to Global Ship Lease pursuant to its charters. Although the initial Charterer is obligated to pay Global Ship Lease regardless of the amount of cargo on board or the safety of the cargoes, it is possible that low cargo volumes and low freight rates or events noted above may render the initial Charterer financially unable to pay Global Ship Lease its hire. Furthermore, there is a risk that a vessel may become 19 Table of Contents damaged, lost or destroyed and any such occurrence may cause Global Ship Lease additional expenses to repair or substitute the vessel or may render Global Ship Lease unable to provide the vessel for chartering, which will cause Global Ship Lease to lose charterhire revenue. These occurrences could also result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to Global Ship Lease’s reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase its costs or lower Global Ship Lease’s revenues, which could result in reduction in the market price of its Class A common shares. Maritime claimants could arrest Global Ship Lease’s vessels, which could interrupt the initial Charterer’s or Global Ship Lease’s cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of Global Ship Lease’s vessels, for valid or invalid reasons, could interrupt the initial Charterer’s or Global Ship Lease’s cash flow and require the initial Charterer or Global Ship Lease or Global Ship Lease’s insurance to pay a significant amount to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in its fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet. In any event, any lien imposed may adversely affect its results of operations by delaying the revenue gained from ships. Governments could requisition Global Ship Lease’s vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition one or more of Global Ship Lease’s vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although Global Ship Lease would likely be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of its vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of Global Ship Lease’s vessels may negatively impact its revenues and cash flow. Technological innovation could reduce Global Ship Lease’s charterhire income and the value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels. The charterhire rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical condition. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge containers quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors due to draft or other physical considerations, utilize related dock facilities, such as cranes, load or unload with on-board cranes and pass through canals and straits. Physical condition is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new containerships are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than Global Ship Lease’s vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect the amount of charterhire payments Global Ship Lease receives for its vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of its vessels could significantly decrease. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and may adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s business and operating results. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must conform to the rules and standards of a classification society approved by the vessel’s country of registry. Such societies set the rules and standards for the design, construction, classification, and surveys of vessels and conduct surveys to determine whether vessels are in compliance with such rules and standards. A certification by the society is an attestation that the vessel is in 20 Table of Contents compliance with the society’s rules and standards. A vessel involved in international trade must also conform to national and international regulations on safety, environment and security, including (but not limited to) the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS, and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. A vessel conforms to such regulations by obtaining certificates from its country of registry and/or a classification society authorized by the country of registry. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special or class renewal survey, a vessel’s machinery may be reviewed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Please see “Business Overview—Inspection by Classification Societies” for more information regarding annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. Bureau Veritas, Lloyd’s Register and Germanischer Lloyd, the classification societies for the vessels in Global Ship Lease’s fleet, may approve and carry out in-water inspections of the underwater parts of its vessels once every three to five years, in lieu of drydocking inspections. In-water inspections are typically less expensive than drydocking inspections and Global Ship Lease intends to conduct in-water inspections when that option is available to it. If a vessel does not maintain its “in class” certification or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, port authorities may detain the vessel, refuse her entry into port or refuse to allow her to trade resulting in the vessel being unable to trade and therefore rendering her unemployable. In the event that a vessel becomes unemployable, Global Ship Lease could also be in violation of provisions in its charters, insurance coverage, covenants in its loan agreements and ship registration requirements and its revenues and future profitability would be negatively affected. Global Ship Lease is subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect Global Ship Lease’s cash flows and net income. The shipping industry, and the operations of containerships, are materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which Global Ship Lease’s containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, Global Ship Lease cannot predict the cost of complying with such requirements or the impact thereof on the value or useful life of its containerships. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit Global Ship Lease’s ability to do business or increase the cost of its doing business and which may materially adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s operations. Global Ship Lease is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to its operations. Many environmental requirements are designed to reduce the risk of pollution, such as oil spills, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. Environmental requirements can also affect the value or useful lives of its vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, Global Ship Lease could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of oil-based products or other hazardous materials from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. Global Ship Lease could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous materials associated with its existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, criminal liabilities or seizure or detention of its vessels. In addition, significant compliance costs could be incurred due to existing environmental laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, which could require new maintenance and inspection procedures and new restrictions on air emissions from its containerships, the development of contingency arrangements for potential spills and/or obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become increasingly strict in the future and require Global Ship Lease to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Global Ship Lease believes that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to 21 Table of Contents become more stringent and more expensive for Global Ship Lease and its competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release of bunker fuel from one of its containerships, among other events, could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information on these and other environmental requirements, you should carefully review the information contained in “Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations.” Risks Related to Tax Matters Global Ship Lease’s operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which will reduce its cash flow. Global Ship Lease does not expect to be engaged in a United States trade or business. In the case of a foreign corporation that is not so engaged, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), imposes a 4% U.S. federal income tax (without allowance of any deductions) on 50% of the corporation’s gross transportation income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, unless the corporation qualifies for the exemption provided in Section 883 of the Code. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the charter agreements, the initial Charterer has agreed to provide reimbursement for any such taxes as the initial Charterer determines where each vessel trades. Global Ship Lease may qualify for the tax exemption provided by Section 883 of the Code. However, there are factual circumstances beyond its control that could cause Global Ship Lease not to have the benefit of this exemption and thereby be subject to the 4% tax described above. For example, if shareholders with a 5% or greater interest in its Class A common shares were collectively to own 50% or more of its outstanding common shares on more than half the days during a taxable year, Global Ship Lease would probably not be able to qualify for the exemption provided under Section 883 of the Code. Based on information that Marathon had as to its shareholders, it appears that if such shareholders were to retain the Global Ship Lease Class A common shares that they received in the Merger, Global Ship Lease likely would not qualify for the Section 883 exemption. Because this, as well as other factors relevant to the availability of the Section 883 exemption, will depend on future facts over which Global Ship Lease has no control, Global Ship Lease can give no assurances that it will qualify for the Section 883 exemption. See “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—The Section 883 exemption” for a more comprehensive discussion of the transportation income exemption. Global Ship Lease could be taxed as a United States corporation. Section 7874 of the Code provides that a foreign corporation which acquires substantially all the properties of a U.S. corporation is generally treated as though it were a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, after the acquisition, at least 80% (by vote or value) of the stock of the foreign corporation is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of owning stock in the U.S. corporation. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP has given a legal opinion that this rule should not apply to Global Ship Lease. Such opinion relied, in part, on assumptions, representations and other information as to certain factual matters, including valuation. Valuation is a question of fact and is subjective. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) would not seek to challenge the correctness of such assumptions, representations or other information or the conclusion reached in such legal opinion, or that such a challenge would not be successful. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP has not undertaken any obligation to update its opinion. If Global Ship Lease were to be treated as a U.S. corporation, its net income would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, with the highest statutory rate currently being 35%. The imposition of this tax would likely have a negative effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—Possibility of taxation as a U.S. corporation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the tax consequences to Global Ship Lease being taxed as a U.S. corporation. 22 Table of Contents Certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could arise for United States holders. Shareholders of a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, that are United States persons within the meaning of the Code, which Global Ship Lease refers to as “United States shareholders,” are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive from a PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in a PFIC (as discussed below). In addition, dividends paid by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and, hence, are ineligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. A foreign corporation is treated as a PFIC if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) 50% or more of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business; income derived from the performance of services does not, however, constitute “passive income.” While there are legal uncertainties involved in this determination, based on representations made by Global Ship Lease, GSL Holdings and Marathon, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, or Simpson Thacher, has advised Global Ship Lease, and has delivered an opinion to the effect, that (1) the charters Global Ship Lease has entered into with CMA CGM should constitute service contracts rather than leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and (2) as a result, the income from these charters should not constitute “passive income,” and the assets Global Ship Lease owns for the production of this income should not constitute passive assets. Based on this opinion, Global Ship Lease does not expect that it will constitute a PFIC with respect to the current or any future taxable year. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing its current and projected future operations. In addition, Simpson Thacher’s opinion was based on certain representations made by Global Ship Lease, GSL Holdings and Marathon, and such representations were not and will not be presented for review to the IRS. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert that Global Ship Lease is a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, nor that a court would not uphold any such assertion. Moreover, no assurance can be given that Global Ship Lease will be able to avoid PFIC classification for any future taxable year if Global Ship Lease decides to change the nature and/or extent of its operations. Simpson Thacher has not undertaken any obligation to update its opinion. Further, in a recent case not concerning PFICs, Tidewater Inc. v. U.S., 2009-1 USTC ¶ 50,337, the Fifth Circuit held that a vessel time charter at issue generated rental, rather than services, income. However, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the IRS that the time charter income should be treated as services income, and the terms of the time charter in that case differ in material respects from the terms of most of our time charters. No assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. If the IRS were to determine that Global Ship Lease is or has been a PFIC for any taxable year, its United States shareholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Distributions paid by Global Ship Lease with respect to its shares will not constitute qualified dividend income if Global Ship Lease were a PFIC in the year Global Ship Lease pays a dividend or in the prior taxable year and, hence, will not be eligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. In addition, its United States shareholders (other than shareholders who have made a “qualified electing fund” or “mark-to-market” election) will be subject to special rules relating to the taxation of “excess distributions”—with excess distributions being defined to include certain distributions Global Ship Lease may make on its Class A common shares as well as gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a disposition of its Class A common shares. In general, the amount of any “excess distribution” will be allocated ratably to each day of the U.S. holder’s holding period for its Class A common shares. The amount allocated to the current year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year for which Global Ship Lease was a PFIC will be included in the U.S. holder’s gross income for the current year as ordinary income. With respect to amounts allocated to prior years for which Global Ship Lease was a PFIC, the tax imposed for the current year will be increased by the “deferred tax amount,” which is an amount calculated with respect to each prior year by multiplying the amount allocated to such year by the highest rate of tax in effect for such year, together with an interest charge as though the amounts of tax were overdue. See “Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences—Tax Consequences of Holding Class A Common Shares—U.S. holders—Consequences of possible passive foreign investment company classification” for 23 Table of Contents a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if Global Ship Lease were treated as a PFIC (including those applicable to United States shareholders who make a qualified electing fund or mark-to-market election). Global Ship Lease may be subject to taxation on all or part of its income in the United Kingdom, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. If Global Ship Lease were considered to be a resident of the United Kingdom or to have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, all or a part of its profits could be subject to UK corporate tax, which currently has a maximum rate of 28%. Global Ship Lease is managed and controlled from outside the United Kingdom and restricts its activities within the United Kingdom so that its UK taxes will be minimized. Certain intra-group services may be provided from within the United Kingdom, in which case UK corporate tax will be payable on the arms-length price for those services. The appropriate arms-length price in these circumstances is likely to be a matter of negotiation with the UK taxing authorities. Because some administrative and executive services will be provided to Global Ship Lease by a subsidiary company located in the United Kingdom and certain of its directors may reside in the United Kingdom, and because UK statutory and case law fail to definitively identify the activities that constitute a trade being carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the UK taxing authorities may contend that Global Ship Lease is subject to UK corporate tax on all of its income, or on a greater portion of its income than Global Ship Lease currently expects to be taxed. If the UK taxing authorities made such a contention, Global Ship Lease could incur substantial legal costs defending its position, and, if Global Ship Lease was unsuccessful in its defense, its results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 