Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We operate in a very competitive industry and may not be able to maintain our revenues and profitability. The ERP services market in China is intensely competitive and is characterized by frequent technological changes, evolving industry standards and changing client demands. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are: § product quality § adoption and implementation of standards § emerging technology trends § development of Internet software products § reliability § performance and price § vendor and product reputation § financial stability § features and functions and ease of use § quality of support A number of companies offer competitive products and services addressing certain of our target markets. Our most significant competition comes from well-funded international platform providers, such as SAP Ag and IBM, domestic providers, such as Kingdee International Software Group Company Limited (HKEX: 0268) (“Kingdee”), Shandong Inspur Software Co., Ltd. (SHA: 600756), UFIDA Software Co., Ltd. (SSE: 600588) (“UFIDA”), and other targeted solutions providers in certain market segments in which we operate. We expect competition to increase from domestic and international competitors as additional companies compete to provide ERP services in China. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and inability to gain or hold market share. Many of our competitors have competitive advantages over us, including significantly greater financial, technical, research and development, sales and marketing and other resources, greater brand recognition and longer operating histories; and larger customer bases and longer, more established client relationships. In addition, our competitors may introduce new business models. If these new business models are more attractive to customers than the business models we currently use, our customers may switch to our competitors’ services, and we may lose market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any new or existing competitors, or against any new business models our competitors may implement. In addition, the increased competition we anticipate in the ERP industry may also redu ce the number of companies for which we are able to provide ERP services, or cause us to reduce our fees in order to attract or retain customers. All of these competitive factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our revenues are highly dependent on China’s oil and gas industry in general and on a few customers involved in that industry in particular. While we provide ERP services to companies in a variety of industries, we have a particular focus on providing ERP solutions for companies in the oil and gas industry in China. In particular, we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from our key customers in this industry, Sinopec and PetroChina and their subsidiary and parent companies. 6 We anticipate that our dependence on a limited number of customers will continue for the foreseeable future. Consequently, any one of the following events may cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenues: § reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our significant customers § loss of one or more of our significant customers and our failure to identify additional or replacement customers § failure of any of our significant customers to make timely payment for our products To anticipate our client’s future ERP needs and build their trust and develop suitable solutions, we must maintain a close relationship with our key clients. Any failure to maintain this close relationship, due to unsuccessful sales and marketing efforts, lack of suitable solutions, unsatisfactory performance or other reasons, could cause us to lose a client and its business. This is especially true for PetroChina and Sinopec, as many of the subsidiary branches of these companies have independent purchasing power for their information technology needs. If we lose a key client or a portion of work we currently receive from it, a key client significantly reduces its purchasing levels or delays a major purchase or we fail to attract additional major clients, our revenues could decline, and our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may be unable to maintain current ERP software fees in the future. We believe one reason for our success in competing with international ERP providers in the past has been the competitive and lower fees for our development services and products, in particular our fees for custom solution development. For our custom development services, our prices are tied to the wages we pay our developers. China’s average wages have been increasing rapidly for the last several years, causing our services to become correspondingly more expensive. We believe that increased competition within China and international competitors’ growing familiarity with the Chinese ERP market may result in a decrease in prices of our domestic competitors and a “leveling of the field” with our international competitors. For example, we provide some ERP services that contemplate ongoing maintenance fees. Several local ERP competitors have begun to charge low annual maintenance fees, in some cases less than a 5% fee, and to waive fees for first-year maintenance. To the extent our customers demand similar concessions or additional services, we may need to reconsider our fee structures. We cannot assure that any new fee structures would be accepted in the market or that we will be able to maintain our profitability if we are required to reduce these fees. We may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses, and our expenses may increase following an acquisition or strategic transaction. Under our long-term corporate expansion strategy, we have acquired, and may continue to acquire or invest in the future, various businesses and assets in different industries. Successful acquisitions may be difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and alignment of product offerings and coordination of business operations and research and development efforts. The difficulty may be increased by differences and gaps in technological capability, corporate culture and geography, and we may not be able to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully. Furthermore, the complexities and challenges in integrating acquired businesses may require us to dedicate substantial resources that may increase our expenses, distract attention from our day-to-da y operations, or disrupt our marketing or sales efforts, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial conditions and prospects. We may be forced to reduce the prices of our software products due to shortened product life cycles, increased competition and reduced bargaining power with our clients, which could lead to reduced revenues and profitability. The software industry in China is developing rapidly and related technology trends are constantly evolving. This results in frequent introduction of new products and services, shortening product life cycles and significant price competition from our competitors. As the life cycle of a software product matures, the average selling price of the same product generally declines. A shortening life cycle of our software products generally could result in price erosion for these products if we are unable to introduce new products, or if our new products are not favorably received by our clients. We may be unable to offset the effect of declining average sales prices through increased sales volumes and/or reductions in our costs. Furthermore, we may be forced to reduce the prices of our software products in response to offerings made by our co mpetitors. Finally, we may not have the same level of bargaining power we have enjoyed in the past when it comes to negotiating for the prices of our software products. 7 Any significant failure in our information technology systems could subject us to contractual liabilities to our clients, harm our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Our business and operations are highly dependent on the ability of our information technology systems to timely process various transactions across different markets and solutions. In particular, our Internet-based ERP solutions rely heavily on the stability of our systems. The proper functioning of these systems is critical to our business and to our ability to compete effectively. Our ERP business activities in particular may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of our primary information technology or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry or other events beyond our control. We could also experience system interruptions due to the failure of their systems to function as intended or the failure of the systems relied upon to deliver services such as the Internet, processors that integrate with other systems and networks and systems of third parties. Loss of all or part of the systems for a period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business and business reputation. We may be liable to our clients for breach of contract for interruptions in service. Due to the numerous variables surrounding system disruptions, the extent or amount of any potential liability cannot be predicted. While we believe that this risk disproportionately affects our Internet-based ERP operations, which currently constitute a small portion of our overall business, the growth of our Internet-based ERP operations may make this risk more material to our overall business in the future. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and adversely affect our results of operations. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in operations. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through computer systems of our customers. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter existing and potential clients from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these s ecurity breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe that this risk disproportionately affects our Internet-based ERP operations, which currently constitute a small portion of our overall business, the growth of our Internet-based ERP operations may make this risk more material to our overall business in the future. Chinese businesses may not be as open to ERP services as businesses in other countries. Recent studies about the effectiveness of implementing ERP systems in China suggest that the success rate for such implementations is lower than in other developed countries. Academics have theorized that some of the reasons that studies have found implementation success rates may vary depending on the following: § The Chinese economy has only recently opened to foreign investment and Western business practices including ERP systems § Foreign companies are still learning to adapt their ways of doing business to Chinese cultural and business models § Chinese businesses tend to expect ERP systems to adapt to the way business is already done, rather than to change business practices to match a given ERP system § ERP implementation under such requirements can be expensive and time-consuming and may be either late or over budget We may lose our clients and our financial results would suffer if our clients change the decision-making body for their ERP system, merge with or are acquired by other companies, develop their own in-house capabilities or fail to expand. We believe that doing business in China is influenced by sound client relationships, or guanxi. Our business may be harmed if our guanxi with our clients deteriorates for any reason, including the following: Our clients may change their decision-making body for making ERP investments and key decision makers may change. For each key client, we use a team dedicated to its projects and to maintaining stable and close relationships with the relevant ERP procurement decision-makers. We build these extensive relationships over the course of several years. If a client centralizes purchasing decisions or otherwise changes the decision making body or level within the company at which the purchase decision is made or a key decision-maker is replaced, transferred or leaves the company, our client relationships may be disrupted and we may be unable to effectively and timely restore these relationships. Consolidation of our clients and growth of in-house capabilities. As our clients grow in size, they may exert pricing pressure on vendors, and/or find it more cost-effective to set up their own ERP solutions, instead of relying on third-party companies for solutions and services. Our clients fail to expand. Our clients may not successfully compete with their domestic and foreign competitors in the future. If our clients suffer a reduced market share or their results of operations and financial condition are otherwise adversely affected, they may reduce spending on our products and change expansion plans for their ERP systems, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our growth and results of operations. 8 Defects in our software, errors in our systems integration or maintenance services or our failure to perform our professional services could result in a loss of clients and decrease in revenues, unexpected expenses and a reduction in market share. Our software solutions are complex and may contain defects, errors and bugs when first introduced to the market or to a particular client, or as new versions are released. Because we cannot test for all possible scenarios, our solutions may contain errors which are not discovered until after they have been installed and we may not be able to correct these problems on a timely basis. These defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay completion of projects or sales to our clients. In addition, our reputation may be damaged and we may fail to obtain new projects from existing clients or new clients. We may make mistakes when we provide systems integration and maintenance services. We also provide a range of ERP services and must meet stringent quality requirements for performing these services. If we fail to meet these requirements, we may be subject to claims for breach of contracts with our clients. Any such claim or adverse resolution of such claim against us may hurt our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could cause us to be less competitive. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect and maintain intellectual property rights and licensing arrangements for our products. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Piracy of intellectual property is widespread in China and despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriations of our technology, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in other countries such as the United States. In addition, third parties may seek to challenge, invalidate, circumvent or render unenforceable any intellectual property rights owned by us. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs, diversion of our management’s attention and diversion of our other resources. We share intellectual property rights to a number of our software solutions with Sinopec and PetroChina. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from these clients and others, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business and materially affect our gross margin and net income. We have developed certain ERP software solutions in the oil and gas industry as commissioned by our customers in which we have agreed to share intellectual property rights. These affected contracts provided that we have the rights to own and commercialize any substantial improvements we make to the software solutions developed for clients under these contracts. We are not required to pay any royalties to the companies with which we have agreed to share such intellectual property in such cases. We have also sold, and may sell in the future, variations of these software solutions to other clients. We have not sold any software solutions to which we share intellectual property rights with Sinopec, PetroChina or any other company. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights, or we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. For example, if one of the companies from which we obtain software does not own all relevant intellectual property rights for the software we obtained, we could be liable for damages from the owner of such rights. In addition, we typically provide indemnification to clients who purchase our solutions against potential infringement of intellectual property rights underlying those solutions, and are therefore subject to the risk of indemnity claims. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, reputational harm, lost sales and lower gross margins which may materially and adversely affect our business, gross margin and net income. While we believe that, because we develop much of our own software, we are at a lower risk of such claims of infringement than we would be if we licensed all of our software from other companies, we cannot guarantee that third-parties will not ma ke claims of infringement against us. We are heavily dependent upon the services of technical and managerial personnel that possess skills to develop and implement ERP software, and we may have to actively compete for their services. We are heavily dependent upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled technical, managerial and consulting personnel, especially highly skilled engineers involved in ongoing product development and consulting personnel. Our ability to install, maintain and enhance our ERP software is substantially dependent upon our ability to locate, hire and train qualified personnel. As ERP concepts have only recently been adopted in China, the number of qualified technical, managerial and consulting personnel is limited. Many of our technical, managerial and consulting personnel possess skills that would be valuable to all companies engaged in software development, and the Chinese software industry is characterized by a high level of employee mobility and aggressive recruiting of skilled personnel. Consequently, we expect that we will h ave to actively compete with other Chinese software developers for these employees. Our ability to profitably operate is substantially dependent upon our ability to locate, hire, train and retain our technical, managerial and consulting personnel. Although we have not experienced difficulty locating, hiring, training or retaining our employees to date, there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current personnel, or that we will be able to attract, assimilate other personnel in the future. If we are unable to effectively obtain and maintain skilled personnel, the quality of our software products and the effectiveness of installation and training could be materially impaired. See “Our Business – Employees.” 9 Increases in wages for technical professionals will increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. Historically, wages for comparably skilled technical personnel in the Chinese ERP services industry have been lower than in developed countries, such as in the U.S. or Europe. In recent years, wages in China’s software services industry in general and the ERP industry in particular have increased and may continue to increase at faster rates. Wage increases will increase our cost of ERP software solutions of the same quality and increase our cost of operations. As a result, our gross margin and profit margin may decline. In the long term, unless offset by increases in efficiency and productivity of our work force, wage increases may also result in increased prices for our solutions and services, making us potentially less competitive. Increases in wages, including an increase in the cash component of our compensation expenses, wil l increase our net cash outflow and our gross margin and profit margin may decline. Fluctuations in our clients’ spending cycles and other factors can cause our revenues and operating results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. Our revenues and operating results will vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. The Chinese New Year holiday typically falls between late January and February of each year. As a result, relatively few contracts are signed in the first calendar quarter, with an increase in the second calendar quarter and with most of our contracts being implemented and completed in the third and fourth calendar quarters. Due to the annual budget cycles of most of our clients, we also may be unable to accurately estimate the demand for our solutions and services beyond the immediate calendar year, which could adversely affect our business planning. Moreover, our results will vary depending on our clients’ business needs from year to year. Due to these and other factors, our operating results have fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. These fluctuations are likely to continue in the future, and operating results for any period may not be indicative of our future performance in any future period. A significant portion of our revenues are fixed amounts according to our sales and service contracts. If we fail to accurately estimate costs and determine resource requirements in relation to our projects, our margins and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. A significant portion of the ERP software development and ongoing service revenues we generate are fixed amounts according to our sales contracts or bids we submit. Our projects often involve complex technologies and must often be completed within compressed timeframes and meet increasingly sophisticated client requirements. We may be unable to accurately assess the time and resources required for completing projects and price our projects accordingly. If we underestimate the time or resources required we may experience cost overruns and mismatches in project staffing. Conversely, if we over estimate requirements, our bids may become uncompetitive and we may lose business as a result. Furthermore, any failure to complete a project within the stipulated timeframe could expose us to contractual and other liabilities and damage our reputation. Our financial performance is directly related to our ability to adapt to technological change and evolving standards when developing and improving our ERP software products. The ERP software industry is subject to rapid technological change, changing customer requirements, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards that may render existing software obsolete. In particular, improved access to high-speed Internet and wireless networks may affect the ERP software industry in the near future. In addition, as the Chinese economy has only recently begun to incorporate various Western economic factors, ERP systems have only recently been adopted by Chinese businesses. As a result, our position in the Chinese ERP industry could be eroded rapidly by the speed with which Chinese businesses continue to adopt Western business practices and technological advancements that we do not embrace. The life cycles of our software are difficult to estimate. Our software products must keep pace with techn ological developments, conform to evolving industry standards and address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers. We are substantially dependent upon our key personnel, particularly Hugh Wang, our Chairman, Guoqiang Lin, our Chief Executive Officer, and Allen Zhang, our Chief Financial Officer. Our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. In particular, the services of: § Hugh Wang, our Chairman § Guoqiang Lin, our Chief Executive Officer and § Allen Zhang, our Chief Financial officer would be difficult to replace. We do not have in place “key person” life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could substantially impair our ability to successfully implement our existing business strategy and develop new programs and enhancements. 10 As a software-oriented business, our ability to operate profitably is directly related to our ability to develop and protect our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, nondisclosure and copyright law to protect our ERP software, which may afford only limited protection. Although the Chinese government has issued us 13 copyrights on our software, we cannot guarantee that competitors will be unable to develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties, including customers and consultants, may attempt to reverse engineer or copy aspects of our software products or to obtain and use information that we regard proprietary. Although we are currently unaware of any unauthorized use of our technology, in the future, we cannot guarantee that others will not use our technology without proper authorization. We develop our software products on third-party middleware software programs that are licensed by our customers from third parties, generally on a non-exclusive basis. Because we believe that there are a number of widely available middleware programs available (including, among others, IBM Websphare, Oracle DBMS, and Sybase DBMS), we do not currently anticipate that we will experience difficulties obtaining these programs. The termination of any such licenses, or the failure of the third-party licensors to adequately maintain or update their products, could result in delay in our ability to develop certain of our products while we seek to implement technology offered by alternative sources. Nonetheless, while it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain other licenses, there can be no assurance that they will be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Although some of our software is standalone software, much of our software is built as an add-on to software developed by other companies. In particular, the following software is an add-on to software developed by SAP: § group accounting software (also may be used independently from SAP) § general reporting system § heterogeneous data exchange platform software § planning and statistics software The following software is an add-on to software developed by Oracle: § business intelligence software § heterogeneous data exchange platform software In the future, we may develop software that relies on these and other third parties’ software. There can be no guarantee that our software will be completely compatible with these third-parties’ software or that these third parties will not develop functionally similar software that integrates more efficiently with their own software platforms. In the future, we may receive notices claiming that we are infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. While we believe that we do not infringe and have not infringed upon the rights of others, we cannot guarantee that we will not become the subject of infringement claims or legal proceedings by third parties with respect to our current programs or future software developments. In addition, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any such claims could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or force us to enter into royalty or license agreements rather than dispute the merits of such claims, thereby impairing our financial performance by requiring us to pay additional royalt ies and/or license fees to third parties. See “Our Business – Intellectual Proprietary Rights.” 11 We may not pay dividends. Although we previously paid a single cash dividend in 2006, we do not currently anticipate paying any dividends on our common shares. Although we have historically been a profitable enterprise, we cannot assure you that our operations will continue to result in sufficient revenues to enable us to operate at profitable levels or to generate positive cash flows. Furthermore, there is no assurance that our Board of Directors will declare dividends even if we are profitable. Dividend policy is subject to the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our future earnings, financial condition, capital requirements and other factors. Under British Virgin Islands law, we may only pay dividends from surplus (the excess, if any, at the time of the determination of the total assets of our company over the sum of our liabilities, as shown in our books of account, plus our capital), and we must be solvent before and after the dividend payment in the sense that we will be able to satisfy our liabilities as they become due in the ordinary course of business; and the realizable value of assets of our company will not be less than the sum of our total liabilities, other than deferred taxes as shown on our books of account, and our capital. If we determine to pay dividends on any of our common shares in the future, as a holding company, we will be dependent on receipt of funds from our operating subsidiary, Pansoft (China) Co. Ltd. (“PCCL”). See “Dividend Policy.” Foreign Operational Risks We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based upon the nature of our business activities, we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, a U.S. investor will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either: § 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year is passive income; or the average percentage of our assets by value in a taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income (which includes cash) is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets is based, in part, on the then market value of our common shares, which is subject to change. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise in our IPO. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. See “Taxation – United States Federal Income Taxation – Passive Foreign Investment Company.” You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under British Virgin Islands law, conduct substantially all of our operations in China and all of our officers and directors reside outside the United States. We are incorporated and registered in the British Virgin Islands, and conduct substantially all of our operations in China through our wholly owned subsidiary in China, PCCL. All of our officers and directors reside outside the United States and some or all of the assets of those persons are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a British Virgin Islands or China court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the British Virgin Islands and of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. There i s no statutory recognition in the British Virgin Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the British Virgin Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association and by the Companies Law and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under British Virgin Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The common law of the British Virgin Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the British Virgin Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly establi shed as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. In particular, the British Virgin Islands has no securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides a lower level of protection to investors. In addition, British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. 12 As a result of all of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management, directors or major shareholders than the shareholders of a U.S. public company. A slowdown in the Chinese economy or an increase in its inflation rate may slow down our growth and profitability. The Chinese economy has grown at a rate of approximately 9% for more than 25 years, making it the fastest growing major economy in recorded history. China’s economy growth rate reached 11.4% in 2007, the fastest pace in 11 years, and slowed down to 8.4% in 2009 due to worldwide recession according the National Bureau of Statistics. However, Merry Lynch’s report on Wealth Growth in Asia and Pacific projected that China’s GDP will pick up and reach 9.9% growth rate in 2010. In particular, China’s software industry has grown dramatically. The Chinese software industry reached RMB 951 billion in 2009, an increase of 25.6% from 2008. It is expected that overall software sales will maintain a growth rate of 25% in 2010 as projected by the China Software Industrial Association (Software Industrial Dynamics, Vol. 2, 2010). We cannot assure you that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady, that inflation will be controllable or that any slowdown in the economy or uncontrolled inflation will not have a negative effect on our business. Several years ago, the Chinese economy experienced deflation, which may recur in the future. More recently, the Chinese government announced its intention to continuously use macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy, the results of which are difficult to predict. Adverse changes in the Chinese economy will likely impact the financial performance of a variety of industries in China that use or would be candidates to use our products. If such adverse changes were to occur, our customers and potential customers could reduce spending on our products and services. See “Our Bu siness - Background of the Chinese Software Industry.” We do not have business interruption, litigation or natural disaster insurance. The insurance industry in China is still at an early-state of development. In particular PRC insurance companies offer limited business products. As a result, we do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business interruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our business incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, pandemic avian influenza or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect the Chinese economy as a whole, the software development industry in general and our ability to profitably provide services. A renewed outbreak of SARS, pandemic avian influenza or another widespread public health problem in China, where we earn most of our revenues, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be affected by a number of health-related factors, including the following: § quarantines or closures of some or our offices or the companies for which we provide services, which would severely disrupt our operations § the sickness or death of our key officers and employees § a general slowdown in the Chinese economy 13 The possible quarantine of our offices or the sickness or death of our key officers and employees would restrict our ability to develop our software solutions. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our markets or our ability to operate profitably. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our customers. We conduct our business primarily through PCCL, which is generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. We and PCCL are considered foreign persons or foreign invested enterprises controlled by PRC citizens under PRC law. As a result, we and PCCL are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, we depend on a variety of development, purchase and service agreements in the operation of our business. Almost all of these agreements are governed by PRC law. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, PRC legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business o perations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. See “Our Business - Background of the Chinese Software Industry.” PRC laws on overseas listings of PRC businesses are uncertain and may in the future require approval from and filing with PRC government agencies. Within the last five years, the PRC government has, on several occasions, amended its regulations relating to overseas listings of PRC businesses. Most recently, on August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, CSRC and SAFE, jointly issued the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors. This regulation became effective on September 8, 2006 and includes provisions that purport to require offshore special purpose vehicles: (i) controlled directly or indirectly by PRC companies or citizens; and (ii) formed for the purpose of effecting an overseas listing of a PRC company to obtain the approval of CSRC prior to the completion of the overseas listing. On September 8, 2006, CSRC published procedures regarding the approval process associated with overseas listings of special purpose vehicles. There is little precedent as to how CSRC will interpret the new regulation and apply the related procedures. 14 We completed the formation of our offshore holding company structure prior to the implementation of the new regulation. Further, given that these new regulations are not retroactive in nature, we were not required to seek and obtain governmental approval to complete our IPO. The PRC government, however, could alter its interpretations of the regulation at any time. To the extent the PRC government alters its current practice of remaining silent regarding overseas listings of PRC businesses like ours, we may be required to seek additional government approval to complete subsequent overseas offerings in the future, and we cannot guarantee that we would obtain such approval. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Co mmerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 75, which took effect on November 1, 2005. In May 2007, SAFE issued the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Operating Procedures Concerning Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 106. Notice 75 and Notice 106 require PRC residents, including both legal persons and natural persons, to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “of fshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of acquiring any assets of or equity interest in PRC companies and raising funds from overseas. In addition, any PRC resident that is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over any assets located in China. If any PRC shareholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. The PRC residents who have already incorporated or gained control of offshore entities that had completed onshore inv estments in the PRC before Notice 75 took effect must register with the relevant local SAFE branch on or before March 31, 2006. In addition, such PRC residents are required to repatriate into the PRC all of their dividend profits or capital gains from their shareholdings in the offshore entity within 180 days of their receipt of such profits or gains. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. A number of terms and provisions in Notice 75 and Notice 106 remain unclear. Because of uncertainty over how the Notice 75 and Notice 106 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with the Notice 75 and Notice 106 by our or our parent company’s PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by the Notice 75 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective dir ect or indirect shareholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our or our parent company’s PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident shareholders to comply with the Notice 75 and Notice 106, if SAFE requires it, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive the majority of our revenues in Renminbi. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our subsidiary, PCCL, to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends, if any, in foreign currencies to our shareholders. 15 Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. Any significant revaluation of Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common shares in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would make any new Renminbi denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for such purposes. See “Exchange Rate Information.” Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration, reduction or discontinuation of, or changes to, these incentives will increase our tax burden and reduce our net income. The PRC government has provided various incentives to companies in the software industry in order to encourage development of the software industry in China. PCCL currently receives rebates, business tax exemptions and government incentives in the form of reduced enterprise income tax at the applicable rate of 12.5% on taxable profits in China, as compared to the statutory rate of 25%. For revenues generated from those parts of our software solutions which are recognized by and registered with government authorities and meet government authorities’ requirements to be treated as software products, we are entitled to receive a refund of 14% on the total VAT paid at the rate of 17%. In addition, we are currently exempted from business tax for revenues generated from the development and transfer of self-made software products for cli ents; further, revenues from our consulting services are subject to a 5% business tax. As a company that qualifies to issue VAT invoices, we need to maintain a certain amount of revenue taxable in the name of VAT. As such, we may have to refuse some of the tax exemption benefit in our self-made software development business and pay VAT for those parts of the revenue in order to maintain minimum VAT revenue thresholds, at a 3% tax rate. This practice may cease to apply if more of our software products is matured, recognized and registered as software products in the PRC. In addition to the tax incentives, we are eligible for government subsidies for certain research and development projects, technology implementation projects or other projects. We receive these government incentives because PCCL operates in the software industry in China Being one of such enterprises, we were permitted to locate our headquarters at the Jinan High-tech Industrial Development Zone, where special incentives are provided, such as alocal income tax deduction and office space free from rental charges. The PRC government authorities may reduce or eliminate these incentives through new legislation at any time in the future. The dividends we receive from PCCL is and our global income may be subject to PRC tax under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, our foreign corporate holders of ordinary shares may be subject to a PRC withholding tax upon the dividends payable by us and upon gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares, if we are classified as a PRC “resident enterprise.” On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC passed the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which law took effect as of January 1, 2008. Under the new PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends, interests, rent, royalties and gains on transfers of property payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in the PRC to its foreign investor who is a non-resident enterprise are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such non-resident enterprise’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with the PRC that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. The British Virgin Islands, where we are incorporated, does not have such a tax treaty with the PRC. We have been subject to a 10% withholding tax imposed on our dividend income received from PCCL during the year ended June 30, 2010 which has been re-invested a s additional capital contribution to PCCL. Under the new tax law, an enterprise established outside the PRC with its “de facto management body” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and is subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The “de facto management body” is defined as the organizational body that effectively exercises overall management and control over production and business operations, personnel, finance and accounting, and properties of the enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret such a broad definition. Substantially all of our management members are based in the PRC. If the PRC tax authorities subsequently determine that we should be classified as a resident enterprise, then our worldwide income will be subject to income tax at a uniform rate of 25%, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new tax law also provides that, if a resident enterprise directly invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested enterprise are exempted from income tax, subject to certain conditions. Therefore, if we are classified as a resident enterprise, the dividends we receive from PCCL may be exempted from income tax. In addition, under the new tax law, foreign corporate holders of our ordinary shares may be subject to a 10% withholding tax upon dividends payable by us and gains realized on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, if such income is sourced from within the PRC. Although we are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, it remains unclear whether the dividends payable by us or the gains our foreign corporate holders may realize will be regarded as income from sources within the PRC if we are classified as a PRC resident enterprise. Any such tax may reduce the return on an investment in our ordinary shares by a foreign corporation. 16 Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. China’s economy has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: § economic structure § level of government involvement in the economy § level of development § level of capital reinvestment § control of foreign exchange § methods of allocating resources § balance of payments position As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. See “Our Business - Background of the Chinese Software Industry.” Since 1979, the Chinese government has promulgated many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters. Despite this activity to develop a legal system, China’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists in China, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain or sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary, in many cases, creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Our activities in China will also be subject to administration review and approval by various national and local agencies of China’s government. Because of the changes occurring in China’s legal and regulatory structure, we may not be able to secure the requisite governmental approval for our activities. Although we have obtained all required governmental approval to operate our business as currently conducted, to the extent we are unable to maintain required governmental approvals, the Chinese government may, in its sole discretion, prohibit us from conducting our business. See “Our Business - Background of the Chinese Software Industry.” The Chinese government could change its policies toward private enterprise or even nationalize or expropriate private enterprises, which could result in the total or material loss of our investment in that country. Our business may be adversely affected by political, economic and social developments in China. Over the past thirty years, the Chinese government has continuously pursued economic reform policies including the encouragement of private economic activity and greater economic decentralization. In addition, the PRC constitution currently provides protections for the private ownership of property. The Chinese government may not continue to pursue these policies or may significantly alter them to our detriment from time to time with little, if any, prior notice. 17 Changes in policies, laws and regulations or in their interpretation or the imposition of confiscatory taxation, restrictions on currency conversion, restrictions or prohibitions on dividend payments to shareholders, devaluations of currency or the nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises could have a material adverse effect on our business. Nationalization or expropriation could even result in the total or material loss of our investment in China and in the total or material loss of your investment in us. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from using the proceeds of our IPO offering to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiary, PCCL, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. As an offshore holding company of PCCL, we may make loans to PCCL, or make additional capital contributions to PCCL or invest in and control another company in the PRC. Any loans to PCCL are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to PCCL, which is a foreign-invested enterprise, to finance its activities cannot exceed statutory limits and must be registered with China’s State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”). We may also decide to finance PCCL by means of increasing our capital contributions. These capital contributions must be approved by the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future capital contributions by us to PCCL. Approvals from the PRC Ministry of Commerce or its local counterpart and other governmental agencies are needed for establishing some other enterprises in the PRC or acquiring a controlling interest in other PRC enterprises. If we fail to receive such approvals, our ability to use the proceeds of our IPO and to capitalize our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. We rely on dividends paid by PCCL for our cash needs. We rely on dividends paid by our PRC subsidiary, PCCL, for our cash needs, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. Under British Virgin Islands law, we may only pay dividends from surplus (the excess, if any, at the time of the determination of the total assets of our company over the sum of our liabilities, as shown in our books of account, plus our capital), and we must be solvent before and after the dividend payment in the sense that we will be able to satisfy our liabilities as they become due in the ordinary course of business; and the realizable value of assets of our company will not be less than the sum of our total liabilities, other than deferred taxes as shown on our books of account, and our capital. Our company registered in the British Virgin Islands is reported to PRC authorities as a special purpose vehicle for financing. The payment of dividends by entities organized in China is subject to limitations, procedures and formalities. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. PCCL is also required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its compulsory reserves fund until the accumulative amount of such reserves reaches 50% of its registered capital. Although PCCL has established this reserve, the reserve is not distributable as cash dividends. If for any reason, the dividends from PCCL cannot be repatriated to us or not in time, then it may detrimentally affect our cash flow and even cause us to become insolvent. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Requirement as a U.S. Public Company The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol “PSOF.” The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. During the period between June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2010, the closing bid price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market ranged between $3.50 and $7.50. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: • announcement of our earnings and actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; • announcement of major contracts with customers; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; • customer demand for our products and services; • investor perceptions of the software industry in general and our company in particular; • the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; • general economic conditions and trends; • major catastrophic events; • stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the similar industries; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; • loss of external funding sources; • sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and • additions or departures of key personnel. 18 One stockholder, Timesway Group Limited, which is controlled by our Chairman Mr. Hugh Wang and our Chief Executive Officer Mr. Guoqiang Lin, exercises significant control over matters requiring shareholder approval. Our Chairman of the Board Hugh Wang and Chief Executive Officer Guoqiang Lin are controlling persons of Timesway Group Limited (“Timesway”), which has voting power as of June 30, 2010 equal to approximately 63% of our voting securities. As a result, Mr. Wang and Mr. Lin, through such stock ownership, exercise significant control over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership in Mr. Wang and Mr. Lin may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control or other significant corporate transactions that may otherwise be viewed as beneficial by shareholders other than Mr. Wang and Mr. Lin. We may be required to raise additional capital by issuing new securities with terms or rights superior to those of our shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock. We may require additional financing to fund future operations, develop and exploit existing and new markets and to support our growth strategy. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the ownership of our current shareholders may be diluted, and the holders of the new equity securities may have rights superior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, which could adversely affect the market price and the voting power of shares of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, the holders of these debt securities would similarly have rights senior to those of the holders of shares of common stock, and the terms of these debt securities could impose restrictions on our operations and create a significan t expense for us to service such debt. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with U.S. corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements and compliance with applicable corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and other rules implemented by the SEC and requirements in connection with the listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Capital Market. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a r esult, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Our officers and directors have limited experience with the regulatory requirements for U.S. public companies, which could impair our ability to satisfy public company filing requirements and could increase our securities compliance costs. All of our officers and most of our directors do not have any prior experience as officers and directors of a U.S. publicly traded company, or in complying with the regulatory requirements applicable to a U.S. public company. As a result, we could have difficulty satisfying the regulatory requirements applicable to U.S. public companies, which could adversely affect the market for our common stock. At present, we rely upon outside experts to advise us on matters relating to financial accounting and public company reporting. While we believe that it will be possible to satisfy our public company reporting requirements through the use of third party experts, our general and administrative costs will remain higher until we have developed or acquired internal expertise in these matters. Our classified board structure may prevent a change in our control. Our board of directors is divided into three classes of directors. The current term of the directors will expire in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Directors of each class are chosen for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of directors is elected by the shareholders. The staggered terms of our directors may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of the shareholders. See “Management- Board of Directors and Board Committees.” 19 