D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We are highly dependent on charter payments from CMA CGM. All of our vessels are chartered to CMA CGM. CMA CGM’s payments to us under the charters are currently our sole source of operating revenue. We are consequently highly dependent on the performance by CMA CGM of its obligation under the charters. The container shipping industry suffered a significant cyclical downturn in the second half of 2008 and through 2009, with positive industry conditions returning in 2010. The container shipping industry suffered a further cyclical downturn in 2011 and many container shipping companies have reported substantial losses. CMA CGM is discussing with its lenders the rescheduling of certain repayments and the adjustment of certain covenants to take account of the cyclical nature of the container shipping industry. Further, we have experienced continued and, from time to time, increased delays in receiving charterhire payments from CMA CGM, where between one and four installments have been outstanding, which under the charter contracts are due to be paid every 15 days in advance. 4 Table of Contents If CMA CGM ceases doing business or fails to perform its obligations under our charters, our business, financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected as it is probable that, even if we were able to find replacement charters, such replacement charters would be at significantly lower daily rates and for shorter durations. If such events occur, there would be significant uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. We may be unable to recharter our vessels at profitable rates, if at all, upon their time charter expiry. The time charters for two of our 17 containerships will expire as early as September 2012. While we generally expect to be able to obtain new time charters for our vessels within a reasonable period prior to their expiry, we cannot be assured that this will occur in any particular case, or at all. In addition, demand for containerships has been weak and charter rates in the spot market are depressed and we are highly unlikely to be able to secure charter rates at the same level as the current time charters. If we are unable to obtain new time charters for these containerships at favorable rates or are unable to secure new charters at all it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants including a maximum leverage ratio based on borrowings under the credit facility expressed as a percentage of charter-free market value of our secured vessels. If the leverage ratio under our credit facility exceeds the permitted level, the lenders under the credit facility may require us to make an additional prepayment of the borrowings or provide additional security, which we may not be able to do and would likely cause a default under the credit facility and which would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a credit facility with ABN AMRO Bank N.V. (also the “Agent”), Citibank Global Markets Limited, HSH Nordbank AG, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch, KFW Ipex Bank GmbH, DnB NOR Bank ASA and Bank of Scotland plc. As of December 31, 2011, outstanding borrowings under the credit facility were $483.6 million. The credit facility contains restrictive financial and other covenants including minimum cash, minimum net worth, minimum EBITDA to debt service, maximum financial net debt to total capital and maximum leverage ratio, which is the ratio of borrowings under the credit facility to the charter-free market value of security posted. If the leverage ratio when tested exceeds 75% or we are otherwise in potential default under the credit facility, and if an amendment to or waiver under the credit facility or other relief is not obtained, the Agent may require a prepayment of borrowings or the delivery of additional security. In such an event, we are likely to go into default under the credit facility, which would raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The container shipping industry is currently experiencing a significant cyclical downturn. As a consequence, there has been a decline in charter free market values of containerships. In anticipation of the scheduled test of the leverage ratio as at November 30, 2011 when we expected that it would be between 75% and 90%, we agreed on November 30, 2011 with our lenders to waive the requirement to perform the leverage ratio test until November 30, 2012 (the “Credit Facility Waiver”). If charter free market values of containerships continue to be depressed, we may require another waiver from the leverage ratio test as at November 30, 2012. There is no guarantee that such a waiver will be obtained. The credit facility also imposes scheduled repayments and additional operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness in the vessel owning subsidiaries, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the management of our vessels without the prior consent of the lender; • permit liens on our assets; • sell our vessels or change the ownership of our subsidiaries; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all our assets to, another person; and • enter into certain types of charters. 5 Table of Contents Therefore, we may need to seek consent from our lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ consent when needed. This may limit our ability to pay dividends, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Our Credit Facility” for more information. The Credit Facility Waiver provides that we may not declare or pay common dividends before November 30, 2012 or until the leverage ratio is no more than 75%, whichever is later. The Credit Facility Waiver provides that we may not declare or pay common dividends before November 30, 2012 or until the leverage ratio is no more than 75%, whichever is later. As a result, we are currently unable to pay dividends to common shareholders. Additionally, our credit facility provides that we may not pay dividends if there is a continuing default under the facility. We are also prohibited from paying dividends if the payment of the dividend would result in a default and any payments to be made into the retention account are not fully up to date. The charter free market value of our vessels can fluctuate substantially depending on market supply and demand for vessels. Since mid 2008, due to an excess of containership capacity, vessel market values have been substantially depressed. In addition, the market value of our vessels will decrease over time, as vessels generally decrease in value as they age. Consequently, the leverage ratio is volatile and will likely increase over time, which will negatively affect our ability to comply with our leverage ratio covenants. This, in turn, will impact our ability to resume dividend payments in the future. We cannot give assurance that we will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under our credit facility. We cannot assure you that at the credit facility’s final maturity date in August 2016 or when otherwise required, we will be able to refinance our indebtedness at all or on terms that are acceptable to us. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of our fleet, among other things, may materially affect our ability to obtain new or replacement debt financing. If we are not able to refinance our indebtedness, we will have to dedicate all of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest of our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If we are not able to satisfy our debt service obligations with our cash flow from operations, we may have to sell some or all of our assets, which may not be possible and which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. If we are unable to meet our debt obligations for any reason, our lenders could declare our debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on vessels in our fleet. Vessel values may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our financial condition, result in the incurrence of a loss upon disposal of a vessel or increase the cost of acquiring additional vessels. Vessel values may fluctuate due to a number of different factors, including: general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; competition from other shipping companies; the types and sizes of available vessels; the availability of other modes of transportation; increases in the supply of vessel capacity; the cost of newbuildings; governmental or other regulations; prevailing freight rates, which are the rates paid to the shipowner by the charterer under a voyage charter, usually calculated either per ton loaded or as a lump sum amount; and the need to upgrade second hand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the container market, if for any reason we sell any of our owned vessels at a time when prices are depressed, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Moreover, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions we may incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if vessel values are elevated at a time when we wish to acquire additional vessels, the cost of acquisition may increase and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. CMA CGM and CMA Ships are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. CMA CGM is our sole charterer and its wholly owned subsidiary, CMA Ships, is our ship manager. CMA CGM has guaranteed the performance of CMA Ships under the ship management agreements. CMA CGM’s ability to continue to pay charterhire and CMA Ships’ ability to render ship management services will depend in part on their own financial position. Circumstances beyond their control could impair CMA CGM’s and CMA Ships’ financial position, and because they are privately held companies, information about their financial position is not publicly available. As a result, we and an investor in our securities might have little advance warning of financial or other difficulties affecting CMA CGM or its wholly owned subsidiaries even though their financial or other difficulties could have a material adverse effect on us. CMA CGM and CMA Ships have conflicts of interest with us which may make them favor their own interests to our detriment. 6 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest may arise between us, on the one hand, and CMA CGM, our charterer, and CMA Ships, our ship manager, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, CMA Ships may favor its own or its parent company’s interests over our interests. These conflicts may have unfavorable consequences for us. Although our ship management agreements expressly prohibit CMA Ships from giving preferential treatment when performing any of its ship management services to any other vessel that is affiliated with it, or otherwise controlled by CMA CGM, conflicts of interest may arise between us, and our ship manager and our charterer. Our financial reporting is dependent on CMA Ships. Under the ship management agreements with CMA Ships, CMA Ships is obliged to provide us with requisite financial information on a timely basis so that we can meet our own reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. CMA Ships and its parent company CMA CGM are privately held corporations with financial reporting arrangements different from ours. If CMA Ships or any of its affiliates is delayed in providing us with key financial information, we could fail to meet our financial reporting deadlines. CMA CGM could compete with us. Along with many other vessel-owning companies, CMA CGM, currently our sole charterer and largest holder of our common shares, could compete with us for the purchase of newbuildings and secondhand vessels. Further, CMA CGM is not precluded from acting as an owner in the direct chartering market. While we understand that CMA CGM currently has no intention of doing so, competition from CMA CGM may potentially harm our ability to grow the business and may decrease our results of operations. Certain terms in our agreements with CMA CGM and its affiliates may be the result of negotiations that were not conducted at arms-length and may not reflect market standard terms. In addition, they may include terms that may not be obtained from future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The charters, the ship management agreements and the other contractual agreements we have entered into with CMA CGM and its wholly owned subsidiaries were made during an affiliated relationship in the context of a previously contemplated public offering of our Class A common shares in 2007, the Merger in August 2008 and other related transactions. Our agreements with CMA CGM may include terms that could not have been obtained from arms-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services and assets. As a result, our future operating results may be negatively affected if we do not receive terms as favorable in future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Our growth depends on our ability to purchase further vessels, obtain new charters and maintain our relationship with CMA CGM. We will require additional financing to be able to grow and will face substantial competition. One of our objectives is to grow by acquiring additional vessels and chartering them out to container shipping companies potentially including CMA CGM. Acquisition of vessels will be challenging as, inter alia, we will need to obtain additional financing in order to complete vessel purchases. Due to the continuing effects on the banking sector of the economic downturn and the severe cyclical downturn in the container shipping industry, financing for investment in containerships, whether newbuildings or existing vessels, is severely limited. Further, the cost of any available financing increased significantly. In addition, in recent years, the number of lenders for shipping companies has decreased and ship-funding lenders have generally lowered their loan-to-value ratios, shortened loan terms and accelerated repayment schedules. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers and proposed charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. These factors may hinder our ability to access financing and we may be unable to obtain adequate funding for growth. The process of obtaining further vessels and new charters is highly competitive. The purchase of vessels and gaining of new charters depends on a variety of factors relating to the vessel owner, including: • competitiveness of overall price; • availability of committed financing; • containership experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • shipping industry relationships and reputation for reliability, customer service and safety; • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • ability to finance containerships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths for newbuildings; and • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications. We will face substantial competition in expanding our business from a number of experienced companies. Many of these competitors may have greater financial resources than us, may also operate larger fleets, may have been established for longer and may be able to offer better charter rates. During any industry downturn there are an increased number of vessels available for charter, including many 7 Table of Contents from owners with strong reputations and experience. The potential excess supply of vessels results in greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to purchase additional containerships, expand our relationships with CMA CGM or to obtain new charterers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from vessel acquisitions, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes, among other things, selectively acquiring newbuildings and secondhand vessels. Growing any business through acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and obtaining the necessary resources to manage an enlarged business. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans, that we will be able to employ any acquired vessels under long-term charters or have ship management agreements with similar or better terms than those we have obtained from CMA Ships or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. Factors that may limit our ability to acquire additional vessels include competition from other owners, availability of financing, shipyard capacity for newbuildings and the limited number of modern vessels with appropriate characteristics not already subject to existing long-term or other charters. Competition from other purchasers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel may not be profitable to us and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to obtain financing, ship management agreements and charters on acceptable terms; • be unable, including through our ship managers, to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our enlarged business and fleet; • fail to realize anticipated benefits of cost savings or cash flow enhancements; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions or by additional repayments of debt; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the vessels acquired; or • not be able to pay dividends. Secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition at the time of acquisition. While we would generally inspect secondhand containerships prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of the vessel’s condition as if it had been built for and operated by us during its life. Future repairs and maintenance costs for secondhand vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for equivalent vessels of which we have had direct experience. These additional costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. Our ability to grow may be reduced by the introduction of new accounting rules for leasing. International and U.S. accounting standard-setting organizations have proposed the elimination of allowing operating leases to not be recorded on the balance sheet. The proposals are still under discussion and a further draft of the accounting standard is expected to be issued during the second half of 2012. The date for implementation is now likely to be 2014 or later. If the proposals are adopted as currently proposed, they would have the effect of bringing most off-balance sheet operating leases, including time charters, onto a lessee’s balance sheet as liabilities. This proposed change could affect charterers by causing them to breach certain financial covenants. This may make them less likely to enter into time charters for our containerships, which could reduce our growth opportunities. Our business depends upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with us. Our current performance and future success depend to a significant extent upon our Chief Executive Officer, Ian J. Webber, our Chief Financial Officer, Susan J. Cook, our Chief Commercial Officer, Thomas A. Lister and our Chief Technical Officer, Vivek Puri. Mr. Webber, Ms. Cook, Mr. Lister and Mr. Puri have an aggregate of over 80 years of experience in the shipping industry and have worked with several of the world’s largest shipping companies. They and members of the board of directors are crucial to the execution of our business strategies and to the growth and development of our business. If these individuals were no longer to be affiliated with us, or if we were to otherwise cease to receive advisory services from them, we may be unable to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, and our business and financial condition may suffer as a result. 8 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and our historical financial and operating data are not representative of our future results. We have a limited operating history. The historical consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report include, mainly for periods up to January 31, 2008, our Predecessor Group’s historical business activities as a container shipping company earning revenue from transporting shippers’ cargo and incurring both vessel and voyage expenses, including fuel costs and all costs related to handling of containers for our vessels while the vessels were owned and operated by CMA CGM or its subsidiaries until the date of the individual transfer of each of 10 vessels in December 2007 and two further vessels in January 2008. The historical consolidated financial statements reflect our results as a vessel owner rather than operator under our fixed-rate long-term charters, ship management agreements and our financing arrangements only from the date of the individual transfer to us of the relevant vessels in December 2007 and January 2008. Further, our capital and legal structure changed significantly as a result of the Merger in August 2008, including our becoming listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Consequently, historical financial information prior to August 15, 2008 is not a meaningful representation of our future results of operations. We did not perform and may not perform underwater inspections of vessels prior to purchase. Although we performed physical inspections of the vessels prior to their purchase, we did not perform any underwater inspections. As a result, we will not be aware of any damage to a vessel that may have existed at the time of purchase and which could only be discovered through an underwater inspection. We purchased the vessels from CMA CGM between December 2007 and August 2009 on an “as is” basis, subject to CMA CGM being responsible for any class condition or recommendation that existed at the date of delivery of the vessels. However, if any damage is subsequently found, we could incur substantial costs to repair the damage which would not be recoverable from the sellers. We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of the vessels and payments under charters are made to them. As a result, our ability to pay dividends and meet any debt service obligations and other liabilities depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands or Cypriot law or the laws of any jurisdiction which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to meet our debt service obligations, pay dividends, including on our preferred shares or meet our other liabilities. Rising crew and other vessel operating costs may adversely affect our profits. Acquiring and renewing long-term time charters with leading liner companies depends on a number of factors, including our ability to man our containerships with suitably experienced, high quality masters, officers and crews. In recent years, the limited supply of and increased demand for well-qualified crew, due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet, has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we generally bear under our time charters. Increases in crew costs and other vessel operating costs such as insurance, repairs and maintenance, and lubricants may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we cannot retain a sufficient number of high quality onboard seafaring personnel, our fleet utilization will decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Rising fuel prices may have an adverse affect on our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates and can affect us in both direct and indirect ways. This cost will be borne by us when our containerships are employed on voyage charters or contracts of affreightment. We currently have no voyage charters or contracts of affreightment, but we may enter into such arrangements in the future, and to the extent we do so, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. Even where the cost of fuel is borne by the charterer, which is the case with all of our existing time charters, that cost will affect the level of charter rates that charterers are prepared to pay. The price of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including but not limited to geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, economic or other sanctions levied against oil and gas producing countries, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. Because we generate all of our revenues in United States dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in United States dollars and some of our expenses are denominated in currencies other than United States dollars. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the United States dollar relative 9 Table of Contents to other currencies, in particular the Euro. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the United States dollar falls in value could increase, thereby decreasing our net income. We have not hedged any of this exposure and our U.S. dollar denominated results of operations and financial condition and ability to pay dividends could suffer from adverse currency exchange rate movements. Future declines in the U.S. dollar versus the Euro could have a material effect on our operating expenses and net income. We must make substantial expenditures to maintain our fleet and to acquire vessels, which may reduce or eliminate the amount of cash for dividends to our stockholders. We must make substantial expenditures to maintain our fleet and we generally expect to finance these maintenance expenditures from operating cash flow. In addition, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to acquire vessels in accordance with our growth strategy. Maintenance expenditures could increase as a result of, among other things, the cost of labor and materials, customer requirements and governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment. Significant expenditures, including to maintain our fleet, may reduce or eliminate the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders. As our fleet ages, we may incur increased operating costs, which would adversely affect our earnings. In general, the day-to-day cost of operating and maintaining a vessel increases with age. In addition, older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and may attract lower charter rates compared to modern more fuel efficient vessels. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards may also require expenditures for modifications, or the addition of new equipment and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify any such expenditures or expenditures to otherwise improve their operating characteristics, such as fuel efficiency to enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Our current fleet of 17 vessels as of December 31, 2011 had an average age weighted by capacity of 7.8 years. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of the useful lives of our vessels our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current fleet of 17 containerships as of December 31, 2011, had an average age weighted by capacity of 7.8 years. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement we will be unable to replace the older vessels in our fleet. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our containerships. The inability to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. Any reserves set aside for vessel replacement will not be available for dividends. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks. Although we carry hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes coverage for environmental damage and pollution) and other insurances commonly used by vessel owners, we may not be adequately insured against all risks or our insurers may not pay every claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a total or constructive total loss in a timely manner. Further, under the terms of our credit facility, we are subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds we may receive under claims in the event of a total or constructive total loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. In addition, insurers typically charge additional premiums if vessels transit certain “excluded areas” which may be subject to higher risk of piracy, war or terrorism. We cannot be certain that our insurers will continue to provide such cover, or that we will be able to recover these increased costs from our charterers. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. In addition, we do not presently carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that might occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from a major accident. Accordingly, any vessel that is off-hire for an extended period of time, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Business Corporations Act of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been very few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The 10 Table of Contents rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Because we are organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve us with legal process or enforce judgments against us, our directors or our management. We are organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Our principal executive offices are located outside the United States and most of our directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against our directors or our management in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against our assets or our directors and officers. We cannot assure you if and when we will resume paying dividends. The credit facility prohibits us from declaring or paying any common dividend unless the leverage ratio is no more than 75%. The Credit Facility Waiver waives the requirement to perform the leverage ratio test until November 30, 2012 and also prohibits the payment of any common dividend during the waiver period. The declaration and payment of dividends is also subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. When permitted by the credit facility and other contractual obligations, we may resume the distribution of a portion of our cash flow to our shareholders, while retaining the remaining cash flow for reinvestment in our business, to fund vessel or fleet acquisitions, make debt repayments and for other purposes, as determined by our board of directors. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things (a) our earnings, financial condition, cash flow and cash requirements, (b) our liquidity, including our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our vessel acquisition strategy, (c) restrictive covenants in our existing and future debt instruments and (d) provisions of Marshall Islands law. The international containership industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends. The amount of cash we generate from operations and the actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends will vary based upon, among other things: • the charter-hire payments we obtain from our charters as well as the rates obtained upon the expiration of our existing charters; • acquisition of additional vessels; • delays in the delivery of newbuilding vessels, if any, and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • the level of our operating costs, such as the costs of crews, lubricants and insurance; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled dry-docking of our containerships; • unexpected repairs to, or required expenditures on, vessels or drydocking costs in excess of those anticipated; • the loss of a vessel; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • changes in interest rates; • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; • changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions; • modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; and • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. In addition, Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received from the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or if there is no surplus, from the net profits for the current and prior fiscal years, or while a company is insolvent or if it would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a 11 Table of Contents dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus or net profits in the future to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds, surplus or net profits to make distributions to us. As a result of these and other factors, we may be able to pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record net income. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future. We have entered into interest rate derivatives to swap a notional amount of $580 million of debt from a floating rate based on LIBOR to a fixed rate until at least March 2013, when $253 million of the cover expires. We are therefore locked into a fixed base borrowing rate, before margin, averaging 3.59% on a weighted basis on a nominal amount of $580 million of debt. We have removed most of the volatility from our cash interest cost, other than for changes in the applicable margin, and are unable to benefit from falling LIBOR rates. As part of our risk management strategy and in order to avoid volatility in our cash interest expense as well as meet the requirement of the credit facility to fix the interest rate on at least 50% of drawn debt, we have entered into interest rate derivatives to swap a notional amount of $580 million of floating rate debt based on LIBOR into fixed rate debt averaging 3.59% on a weighted basis until at least March 2013, when $253 million of the cover expires. We are therefore unable to benefit from falling LIBOR rates. Further, due to required prepayment of outstanding borrowings, we expect to remain in an over-hedged position. Depending on fluctuations in LIBOR, our interest rate swap agreements and their accounting treatment in our financial statements could result in volatility in our reported net income. We have entered into certain financial instrument contracts to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These derivative instruments are recorded in our consolidated balance sheet under U.S. GAAP at market value, as none of the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, with changes in the value being recognized directly in our consolidated statement of income. As an example of the potential volatility, during the year ended December 31, 2009, the relative LIBOR forward interest rate curve experienced upward movement which significantly impacted the market value of our financial instruments, resulting in a non-cash gain of $17.9 million. However, for the year ended December 31, 2010, due to reverses in the forward interest rate curve, we recorded a non-cash loss of $15.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a non-cash loss of $0.9 million. As of December 31, 2011 these derivatives represented a liability of $45.3 million. Future interest rate volatility may expose our net income to significant variations. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our growth and long term profitability depend mainly upon growth in demand for containerships, the condition of the charter market and the availability of capital. The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile. It has recently experienced a severe cyclical downturn from mid 2008 through 2009, favorable conditions in 2010 and a further severe downturn in 2011. The container shipping industry is cyclical, showing significant volatility in vessel values, freight rates, charter rates and financial performance. For example, containership charter rates peaked in 2005 and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the global economic crisis began to affect global container trade, driving charter rates to 10 year lows. In 2010, due to improved economic conditions and increased demand for container shipping services, containership charter rates improved significantly although they remain generally below long term averages. In 2011, due to poor economic conditions and an excess of containership capacity, charter rates again fell. Weak conditions in the containership sector may affect our ability to generate cash flows and maintain liquidity, as well as adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and container shipping services are outside our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: • supply and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; • changes in the pattern of global production of products transported by containerships; • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which container cargoes are transported, the size of containerships, the extent of trans-shipments and the competitiveness of other forms of marine transportation including dry bulk and refrigerated vessels; 12 Table of Contents • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; • the price of oil and economics of slow steaming; • the availability of trade finance and currency exchange rates; and • port and canal congestion. The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: • the containership newbuilding orderbook; • the availability of financing; • the scrapping rate of older containerships; • the number of containerships off-hire or otherwise idle including laid-up; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • changes in environmental and other laws and regulations that may limit the useful life of containerships; • the availability of shipyard capacity; • port and canal congestion; and • the extent of slow steaming. Our ability to recharter our containerships upon the expiration or termination of their current charters, which will be as early as September 2012 for two vessels, and the charter rates receivable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the prevailing state of the containership charter market. If the charter market is depressed when our charters expire, we may be forced to recharter our containerships at reduced or even unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to recharter them at all, which may reduce or eliminate our earnings or make our earnings volatile. The same issues will exist in respect of any additional vessels we may acquire either when obtaining the initial charters or on rechartering at their expiry. Weak economic conditions throughout the world, particularly the Asia Pacific region and recent EU sovereign debt default fears, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative trends in the global economy emerged in 2008 and continued into 2009, although there was some improvement in 2010 and 2011, global economy remains fragile. The global economy is still subject to downside risks stemming from factors like fiscal fragility in advanced economies, highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and persistent difficulties in access to credit. In particular, recent concerns regarding the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, including Greece, Ireland and Portugal, have significantly weakened the Euro zone, disrupted financial markets throughout the world, and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the United States, and other parts of the world. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods shipped in containerized form. We anticipate that a significant number of port calls made by our containerships will continue to involve the loading or unloading of container cargoes in ports in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. In 2011, growth in China’s gross domestic product was 9.2%. However, if China’s growth in gross domestic product declines and other countries in the Asia Pacific region experience slowed or negative economic growth in the future, then this may exacerbate the effect of the significant downturns in the economies of the United States and the European Union, and thus, may negatively impact container shipping demand. For example, the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, including Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and the possibility of market reforms to float the Chinese renminbi, either of which development could weaken the Euro against the Chinese renminbi, could adversely affect consumer demand in the European Union. Such weak economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The United States and other parts of the world have exhibited very weak economic trends since 2008. The credit markets in the United States and elsewhere have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government and state and other governments have implemented and are also considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. SEC, other regulators, self regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. 13 Table of Contents Global financial markets and economic conditions have been severely disrupted and volatile in recent years and remain subject to significant vulnerabilities, such as the deterioration of fiscal balances and the rapid accumulation of public debt, continued deleveraging in the banking sector and limited supply of credit. Credit markets and the debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed and volatile. The current sovereign debt crisis in countries such as Greece, for example, and concerns over debt levels of certain other European Union member states and other countries around the world, as well as concerns about some international banks, has increased volatility in global credit and equity markets. These issues, along with the re-pricing of credit risk and the difficulties currently experienced by financial institutions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. As a result of the disruptions in the credit markets, many lenders have increased margins, enacted tighter lending standards, required more restrictive terms (including higher collateral ratios for advances, shorter maturities and smaller loan amounts), or refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to our current debt. Furthermore, certain banks that have historically been significant lenders to the shipping industry have announced an intention to reduce or cease lending activities in the shipping industry. New banking regulations, including larger capital requirements and the resulting policies adopted by lenders, could reduce lending activities. We may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments in the future if our lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. We cannot be certain that financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our future obligations as they come due. Our failure to obtain such funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In the absence of available financing, we also may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. A decrease in the level of China’s export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism could have a material adverse impact on our charterer’s business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our containerships are deployed on routes involving containerized trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterer’s container shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the United States and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China’s exports and on our charterers’ business. For instance, the government of China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in a decrease of demand for container shipping. Additionally, though in China there is an increasing level of autonomy and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform, many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. Furthermore, if China was to permit the renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the renminbi would appreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar. An increase in the value of the renminbi may negatively impact the United States’ demand for imported goods, many of which are shipped in containerized form. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government. Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. If the incipient global recovery is undermined by downside risks and the recent economic downturn is prolonged, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterer serves has caused and may continue to cause an increase in: (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would have an adverse impact on our charterer’s business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect its ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of its time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur a financial loss if we attempt to sell one or more of our vessels. 14 Table of Contents Containership values can fluctuate substantially over time. Containership values decreased significantly in 2008 and 2009 and have remained at depressed levels through 2011 and remain generally below long term averages. A number of factors may contribute to a decrease in the market value of containerships, including: • unfavorable economic conditions; • a substantial or extended decline in world trade growth leading to reduced demand for container shipping services; • increases or an over-supply in containership capacity including from new vessels on order; • increased age; • prevailing charter rates; and • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards or otherwise. If a charter terminates when the charter market for containerships is depressed, we may be unable to recharter the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. It is likely that in such circumstances asset values will also be depressed. Inability to dispose of the containership at a reasonable price could result in a loss on the vessel’s sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Future fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values may trigger a possible impairment of our vessels as described in Item 5.A. “Results of Operations—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Depressed market values of our vessels pledged as security under the credit facility may also impact our ability to satisfy our leverage ratio covenant under the credit facility. We may have more difficulty entering into long-term charters if a more active and cheaper short-term or spot container shipping market develops. At the expiration of our charters or if a charter terminates early for any reason or if we acquire vessels charter-free, we will need to charter or recharter our vessels. If an excess of vessels is available on the spot or short-term market at the time we are seeking to fix new long-term charters, we may have difficulty entering into such charters at profitable rates and for any term other than short term and, as a result, our cash flow may be subject to instability in the long-term. In addition, it would be more difficult to fix relatively older vessels should there be an oversupply of younger vessels on the market. A more active short-term or spot market may require us to enter into spot or short-term charters based on prevailing market rates, as opposed to long-term contracts, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when charter rates are depressed. An over-supply of containership capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. While the size of the containership orderbook has declined over the last three years, the containership newbuilding orderbook as at March 2012 represented approximately 28% of the total on the water fleet capacity. Further containerships are likely to be ordered. Delivery of newly built containerships will result in an increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next few years. An over-supply of containership capacity, combined with any decline in the demand for containerships, would be likely to result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs when we seek to charter newbuilding vessels, our growth opportunities may be diminished. If such a reduction occurs upon the expiration or termination of our containerships’ current time charters, we may only be able to recharter our containerships for reduced rates or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to recharter our containerships at all. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Piracy is an inherent risk in the operation of ocean-going vessels and particularly affects vessels trading in specific regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arabian Sea and especially off the coast of Somalia. In recent years, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. Generally, we do not control the routing of our vessels which is determined by the charterer. Pirate attacks on any of our vessels could result in loss of life, the kidnapping of crew or the theft, damage or destruction of vessels or of containers or cargo being transported thereon. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, insurance premiums and costs such as onboard security guards, should we decide to employ them, could increase in such circumstances. Further, acts of piracy may materially adversely affect our charterer’s business, impairing its ability to make payments to us under our charters. 15 Table of Contents Terrorist attacks and international hostilities could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the United States and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition from increased security costs and more rigorous inspection procedures at borders and ports. From time to time acts of terrorism, regional conflict and other armed conflict around the world, may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorist attacks targeted at oceangoing vessels may also negatively affect our future operations and financial condition from, for example, increased insurance costs, and directly impact our containerships or our charterer. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased market volatility or even a recession in the United States or elsewhere or negatively affect global financial markets, and could further increase inspection and security requirements and regulation that could slow our operations and negatively affect our profitability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue and costs. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States government, which could negatively affect the trading price of our shares of common stock. From time to time on charterers’ instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and in countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act (“CISADA”), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as the Company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, the U.S. Congress is currently considering the enactment of the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Nonproliferation Reform and Modernization Act of 2011, which would, among other things, provide for the imposition of sanctions, including a prohibition on investments by U.S. persons and a 180-day prohibition on calling at any U.S. port, on companies or persons that provide certain shipping services to or from Iran, North Korea or Syria with respect to certain prohibited goods. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. The smuggling of drugs, weapons or other contraband and stowaways on our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs, weapons and other contraband on vessels or stowaways attempt to board, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband or stowaways, whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew or charterers, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Risks inherent in the operation of containerships could impair the ability of the charterer to make payments to us, increase our costs or reduce the value of our assets. Our containerships and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine accidents, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, environmental accidents and other circumstances or events. Any of these events connected to our vessels or other vessels under the charterer’s control, or any other factor which negatively affects the charterer’s business such as economic downturn and significant cyclical depression in the container shipping industry, could impair the ability of the charterer to make payments to us pursuant to our charters. Although the charterer is obligated to pay us charterhire regardless of the amount of cargo being carried on board, it is possible that generally low cargo volumes and low freight rates or events noted above may render the charterer financially unable to pay us its hire. Furthermore, there is a risk that a vessel may become damaged, lost or destroyed during normal operations and any such occurrence may cause us additional expenses to repair or substitute the vessel or may render us unable to provide the vessel for chartering, which will cause us to lose charter revenue. 16 Table of Contents These occurrences could also result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues, which could result in reduction in the market price of our common shares. The vessels’ mortgagor or other maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt the charterer’s or our cash flow. If we default under our credit facility, our lenders who hold mortgages on our vessels could arrest some or all of our vessels and cause them to be sold. Any proceeds of such sale would be used to first repay all amounts outstanding under the credit facility, including interest rate derivatives. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels, for valid or invalid reasons, could interrupt the charterer’s or our cash flow and require the charterer or us or our insurance to pay a significant amount to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. In any event, any lien imposed may adversely affect our results of operations by delaying the revenue gained from ships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would likely be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. Technological innovation could reduce our charter income and the value of our vessels. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical condition. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge containers quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors with draft or other physical considerations, utilize related dock facilities, such as cranes, load or unload with on-board cranes, carry temperature controlled containers and pass through canals and straits. Physical condition is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new containerships are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect the amount of charterhire we receive for our vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of our vessels could significantly decrease. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and may adversely affect our business and operating results. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must conform to the rules and standards of a classification society approved by the vessel’s country of registry. Such societies set the rules and standards for the design, construction, classification, and surveys of vessels and conduct surveys to determine whether vessels are in compliance with such rules and standards. A certification by a society is an attestation that the vessel is in compliance with the society’s rules and standards. A vessel involved in international trade must also conform to national and international regulations on safety, environment and security, including (but not limited to) the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS, and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. A vessel conforms to such regulations by obtaining certificates from its country of registry and/or a classification society authorized by the country of registry. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special or class renewal survey, a vessel’s machinery may be reviewed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Inspection by Classification Societies” for more information regarding annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. Bureau Veritas, Lloyd’s Register and Germanischer Lloyd, the classification societies for the vessels in our fleet, may approve and carry out in-water inspections of the underwater parts of our vessels once every three to five years, in lieu of drydocking inspections. In-water inspections are typically less expensive than drydocking inspections and we intend to conduct in-water inspections when that option is available to us. If a vessel does not maintain its “in class” certification or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, port authorities may detain the vessel, refuse her entry into port or refuse to allow her to trade resulting in the vessel being unable to trade and therefore rendering her unemployable. In the event that a vessel becomes unemployable, we could also be in violation of provisions in our charters, insurance coverage, covenants in our loan agreements and ship registration requirements and our revenues and future profitability would be negatively affected. 17 Table of Contents We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. The shipping industry and the operation of containerships are materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the cost of complying with such requirements or the impact thereof on the value or useful life of our containerships. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Many environmental requirements are designed to reduce the risk of pollution, such as oil spills, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. Environmental requirements can also affect the value or useful lives of vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of oil-based products or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous materials associated with our existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, criminal liabilities or seizure or detention of our vessels. In addition, significant compliance costs could be incurred due to existing environmental laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, which could require new maintenance and inspection procedures and new restrictions on air emissions from our containerships, the development of contingency arrangements for potential spills and/or obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become increasingly strict in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release of bunker fuel from one of our containerships, among other events, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information on these and other environmental requirements, you should review the information contained in Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations.” Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our containership business. International container shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination, and certain trans-shipment points. These inspection procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers, and the levying of customs duties, fines and other penalties against us. Since the events of September 11, 2001, United States authorities have substantially increased container inspections. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers, which would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. Also, as a response to the events of September 11, 2001, additional vessel security requirements have been imposed, including the installation of security alert and automatic identification systems on board vessels. It is unclear what additional changes, if any, to the existing inspection and security procedures may ultimately be proposed or implemented in the future, or how any such changes will affect the industry. It is possible that such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection and security procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of goods in containers uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. 18 Table of Contents The operation of our vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (the “ISPS Code”). The ISPS Code requires vessels to develop and maintain a ship security plan that provides security measures to address potential threats to the security of ships or port facilities. Although each of our containerships is ISPS Code certified, any failure to comply with the ISPS Code or maintain such certifications may subject us to increased liability and may result in denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Furthermore, compliance with the ISPS Code requires us to incur certain costs. Although such costs have not been material to date, if new or more stringent regulations relating to the ISPS Code are adopted by the IMO and the flag states, these requirements could require significant additional capital expenditures or otherwise increase the costs of our operations. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The price of our securities may be volatile. The price of our common shares may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of publicly held containership owners or operators; • market conditions in the industry; • perceived counterparty risk; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or other containership owners or operators; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • changes in government regulation including taxation; and • the general state of the securities markets. The international containership industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in companies operating in this industry may be equally volatile. We have anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents that may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. Certain of these provisions provide for: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restrictions on business combinations with certain interested shareholders; • directors only to be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the common shares entitled to vote in the election of directors; • advance notice for nominations of directors by shareholders and for shareholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; and • a limited ability for shareholders to call special shareholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. There will be a substantial number of our common shares available for sale in the future that may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common shares. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into at the effective time of the Merger, Marathon’s initial stockholders and CMA CGM can demand that we register the resale of their common shares at any time. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common shares. 19 Table of Contents The Class A Warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and would result in dilution to our shareholders. There are 6,188,088 Class A warrants expiring September 1, 2013 with an exercise price of $9.25. These are owned by CMA CGM, Mr. Gross and other initial stockholders of Marathon. These warrants would likely only be exercised if the $9.25 per share exercise price is below the market price of the Class A common shares. To the extent they are exercised, additional Class A common shares will be issued, which will result in dilution to our shareholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) as well as rules subsequently adopted by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices. Our directors, management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations relating to public companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain and periodically evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 20-F a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent auditors. We have undertaken a comprehensive effort in preparation for compliance with Section 404, which includes the documentation, testing and review of our internal controls under the direction of our management. While we did not identify any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls under the current assessment, we cannot be certain at this time that all our controls will be considered effective in future assessments. Therefore, we can give no assurances that our internal control over financial reporting will satisfy regulatory requirements in the future. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the NYSE rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of the NYSE. Under the securities laws of the United States, “foreign private issuers” are subject to different disclosure requirements than U.S. domiciled registrants, as well as different financial reporting requirements. Under the NYSE rules, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. Subject to the rules of the NYSE, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock, and other equity securities of equal or senior rank, without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: • our existing stockholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease; • the dividend amount payable per share on our common stock may be lower; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and • the market price of our common stock may decline. Our stockholders also may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. The number of shares of common stock available for sale in the public market will be limited by restrictions applicable under securities laws, and agreements that we and our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders may enter into with the underwriters at the time of an offering. Subject to certain exceptions, these agreements generally restrict us and our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders from 20 Table of Contents directly or indirectly offering, selling, pledging, hedging or otherwise disposing of our equity securities or any security that is convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for our equity securities and from engaging in certain other transactions relating to such securities for a period of 180 days after the date of an offering prospectus without the prior written consent of the underwriter(s). Risks Related to Tax Matters Our operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which will reduce our cash flow. We do not expect to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business. In the case of a foreign corporation that is not so engaged, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), imposes a 4% U.S. federal income tax (without allowance of any deductions) on 50% of the corporation’s gross transportation income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, unless the corporation qualifies for the exemption provided in Section 883 of the Code. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the charter agreements, the charterer has agreed to provide reimbursement for any such taxes as the charterer determines where each vessel trades. There are factual circumstances, such as the composition of our shareholder base, beyond our control that could cause us not to have the benefit of the exemption provided by Section 883 of the Code and thereby be subject to the 4% tax described above. Based on information that we have as to our shareholders and other matters, we expect to qualify for Section 883 exemption for 2011. Because the availability of the Section 883 exemption depends on matters over which we have no control, however, we can give no assurances that we will or will continue to qualify for the Section 883 exemption. See Item 10.E. “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—The Section 883 exemption.” We could be taxed as a U.S. corporation. Section 7874 of the Code provides that a foreign corporation which acquires substantially all the properties of a U.S. corporation is generally treated as though it were a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, after the acquisition, at least 80% (by vote or value) of the stock of the foreign corporation is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of owning stock in the U.S. corporation. Although we believe that this rule should not apply to us in the context of the Merger, there is no definitive legal authority applying the principles of Section 7874 of the Code and therefore there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) would not seek to challenge such position, or that such a challenge would not be successful. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation, our net income would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, with the highest statutory rate currently being 35%. The imposition of this tax would likely have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See Item 10.E. “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—Possibility of taxation as a U.S. corporation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the tax consequences of us being taxed as a U.S. corporation. Certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could arise for United States holders. Shareholders of a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, that are United States persons within the meaning of the Code, which we refer to as “United States shareholders,” are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive from a PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in a PFIC (as discussed below). In addition, dividends paid by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and, hence, are ineligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. A foreign corporation is treated as a PFIC if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) 50% or more of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business; income derived from the performance of services does not, however, constitute “passive income.” Based on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not expect that we will constitute a PFIC with respect to the current or any future taxable year, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Our expectation is based principally on the position that, for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC, the majority, if not all, of the gross income we derive from our chartering activities should constitute services income rather than rental income. Correspondingly, we believe such income should not constitute passive income, and the assets owned and operated by us in connection with the production of such income (in particular, the vessels) should not constitute passive assets under the PFIC rules. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and IRS pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters as services income for other tax purposes. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our current and projected future operations. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the 21 Table of Contents IRS will not assert that we are a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, nor that a court would not uphold any such assertion. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to avoid PFIC classification for any future taxable year if we decide to change the nature and/or extent of our operations. Further, in a recent case not concerning PFICs, Tidewater Inc. v. U.S., 2009-1 USTC ¶ 50,337, the Fifth Circuit held that a vessel time charter at issue generated rental, rather than services, income. However, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the IRS that the time charter income should be treated as services income, and the terms of the time charter in that case differ in material respects from the terms of our time charters. No assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law would accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that the company is a PFIC. If the IRS were to determine that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Distributions paid by us with respect to our shares will not constitute qualified dividend income if we were a PFIC in the year we pay a dividend or in the prior taxable year and, hence, will not be eligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. In addition, our United States shareholders (other than shareholders who have made a “qualified electing fund” or “mark-to-market” election) will be subject to special rules relating to the taxation of “excess distributions”—with excess distributions being defined to include certain distributions we may make on our Class A common shares as well as gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a disposition of our Class A common shares. In general, the amount of any “excess distribution” will be allocated ratably to each day of the U.S. holder’s holding period for our Class A common shares. The amount allocated to the current year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year for which we were a PFIC will be included in the U.S. holder’s gross income for the current year as ordinary income. With respect to amounts allocated to prior years for which we were a PFIC, the tax imposed for the current year will be increased by the “deferred tax amount,” which is an amount calculated with respect to each prior year by multiplying the amount allocated to such year by the highest rate of tax in effect for such year, together with an interest charge as though the amounts of tax were overdue. See Item 10.E. “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—Tax Consequences of Holding Class A Common Shares—U.S. holders—Consequences of possible passive foreign investment company classification” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we were treated as a PFIC (including those applicable to United States shareholders who make a qualified electing fund or mark-to-market election). We may be subject to taxation on all or part of our income in the United Kingdom, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we were considered to be a resident of the United Kingdom or to have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, all or a part of our profits could be subject to UK corporate tax, which had a maximum rate of 28% up to March 31, 2011 reducing to 26% for the year ended March 31, 2012, 24% for the year ending March 31, 2013, 23% for the year ending March 31, 2014 and 22% thereafter. We are strategically managed and controlled from outside the United Kingdom and restrict our activities within the United Kingdom. Certain intra-group services are provided from within the United Kingdom and UK corporate tax will be payable on the arms-length price for those services. The appropriate arms-length price in these circumstances is likely to be a matter of negotiation with the UK taxing authorities. Because some administrative and executive services are provided to us by a subsidiary company located in the United Kingdom and certain of our directors reside in the United Kingdom, and because UK statutory and case law fail to definitively identify the activities that constitute a trade being carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the UK taxing authorities may contend that we are subject to UK corporate tax on all of our income, or on a greater portion of our income than we currently expect to be taxed. If the UK taxing authorities made such a contention, we could incur substantial legal costs defending our position, and, if we were unsuccessful in our defense, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to taxes which will reduce our cash flow. We are subject to tax in certain jurisdictions in which we are organized, own assets or have operations, which reduces the amount of our cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority could result in additional tax imposed on us, further reducing the cash available for distribution. 22 Table of Contents 