Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Our revenue and operating results can fluctuate from period to period, which could cause our share price to fluctuate. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate from period-to-period in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following factors, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this document: • a decline or slowdown of the growth in the value of financial market assets, which may reduce the value of assets we have under management and therefore our revenue and cash flows; • variations in expected enrollment rates for our Professional Management service; • unanticipated delays of anticipated advertising, marketing promotions or rollouts of our services; • changes in the number of Professional Management members who withdraw all assets from their 401(k) plan, effectively terminating their relationship with us, or who decide to cancel their Professional Management program participation; • unanticipated changes to economic terms in contracts with plan providers or plan sponsors, including renegotiations; • changes in fees paid by us to plan providers for whom we are not acting as a subadvisor for data retrieval, transaction processing and fee deduction interfaces based on attaining contractually-agreed upon thresholds; • downward pressure on fees we charge for our services; • mix in plan sponsors that choose our Active Enrollment or Passive Enrollment options; • unanticipated delays in expected service availability; 16 Table of Contents • fluctuations in quarterly revenue due to changes in fees paid by Professional Management members based on attaining contractually-agreed upon thresholds; • cancellations or non-renewal of existing contracts with plan providers or plan sponsors; • unanticipated plan sponsor terminations during a migration from Online Advice only to Professional Management services; • failure to enter into contracts with new plan sponsors; • unanticipated changes in the timing or cost of our enrollment and member materials or mix of subadvised, advised and Passive Enrollment materials sent to our Professional Management members and postage costs; • elimination or reduction of sponsor matching contributions into members’ 401(k) plans, which could reduce the growth rate of assets under management; • changes in laws or regulatory policy that could impact our ability to offer services to plan providers as a subadvisor; • unanticipated delays in recognizing revenue based on timing of meeting specified milestones under contracts with customization and consulting services; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors to which we have to adapt; and • negative public perception and reputation of our Company or the financial services industry. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future revenue or operating performance. We have an accumulated deficit and have incurred net losses in the past. We may incur net losses in the future. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $93.8 million. We have incurred net losses in each year through 2008. We may incur net losses in the future, in which event our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. A substantial portion of our revenue is based on fees earned on the value of assets we manage. Our revenue and earnings could suffer if the financial markets experience a downturn or a slowdown in growth that reduces the value, or slows the growth, of our Assets Under Management. We derive a significant and growing portion of our revenue from member fees based on the assets in the retirement accounts we manage, which we refer to as AUM. We allocate these assets among the investments available to each particular plan participant. The investment alternatives for a particular plan are selected by the plan’s fiduciary, not by us, and may include retail mutual funds, institutional funds, exchange-traded funds, fixed-income investments and potentially higher volatility employer stock, if it is an investment alternative in a particular plan. In addition, our business is highly concentrated in the 401(k) plans of plan sponsors in the United States and the United States subsidiaries of international companies. The value of these investments can be affected by the performance of the financial markets globally, currency fluctuations, interest rate fluctuations and other factors. Prior to October 1, 2010, our professional management revenue was generally the product of member fee rates and the value of AUM at the end of each quarter. Effective October 1, 2010, we changed our method of calculating fees for substantially all members with which we have a direct advisory relationship from quarterly to monthly, and fees for some of our subadvised portfolios are also calculated monthly. Our methodology may result in lower fees if the financial markets are down when fees are calculated, even if the market had performed well earlier in the month or the quarter. In addition, an economic downturn or slowdown in growth could cause plan participants or their employers to contribute less to their 401(k) plans and cause fewer eligible employees to participate in 401(k) plans, which could adversely affect the amount of AUM. If plan participants are not satisfied with the performance of their retirement portfolios due to a decline in the financial markets or otherwise, our cancellation rates could increase, which in turn would cause our AUM to decline. If any of these factors reduces the value of assets we have under 17 Table of Contents management, the amount of fees we would earn for managing those assets would decline, and our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our revenue could be harmed if we experience unanticipated delays in expected service availability. We generally do not earn platform fees from a plan sponsor until our services are available to plan participants, and we do not earn fees for our Professional Management service until we begin to manage a participant’s account. If service availability is delayed due to actions or inactions on our part or on the part of a plan sponsor or provider, or due to matters beyond our control, our revenue would be harmed. This in turn would negatively affect our anticipated operating results and financial condition for a particular period. Our revenue could be harmed if fail to enroll new Professional Management plan participants or if we experience increased cancellations or unanticipated variations in new enrollment campaigns. Our enrollment rate, and therefore our revenue, depend on plan participants signing up for or, in the case of a Passive Enrollment campaign, not declining, the Professional Management service. Increasing plan participant enrollment in our Professional Management service increases the AUM on which we earn fees. If we are unable to continue to increase our enrollment, our business may not grow as we anticipate. Unanticipated variations in the number, size, methodology or timing of enrollment campaigns could also affect our revenue for a particular period. If we are not able to generate expected enrollment under a particular contract, this would negatively affect our revenue growth. For example, we have found that if plan sponsors do not use our standard enrollment campaign, enrollment rates tend to be lower. If fewer plan sponsors elect Passive Enrollment for their plan participants, which typically generates higher enrollment rates, our revenue may not grow at anticipated rates. Even when we have rolled out our Professional Management service at a particular plan sponsor, some plan participants may not be eligible for our services due to plan sponsor limitations on employees treated as insiders for purposes of securities laws or other characteristics of the plan participant. Certain securities within a plan participant’s account may be ineligible for management by us, such as employer stock subject to trading restrictions, and we do not manage or charge a fee for that portion of the account. As we endeavor to find new ways to grow enrollment, we may introduce processes that some plan providers, plan sponsors or plan participants reject or resist, which may result in an unsuccessful enrollment campaign or may harm our reputation with those plan providers, plan sponsors or plan participants, thereby jeopardizing future enrollment with those parties. Further, individual plan participants whose accounts we manage may choose at any time to stop having us manage those accounts. Historically, member cancellations rates have typically increased during periods where there has been a significant decline in stock market performance and, in addition, member cancellation rates are typically the highest in the three months immediately following the completion of a given promotional campaign. If we are unsuccessful in our Professional Management enrollment campaigns, if we lose plan participants, or if we otherwise fail to increase enrollment rates, our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We plan to extend and expand our services and may not be able to successfully implement new services or accurately estimate the impact on our business of developing and introducing these services. We plan to extend our services into new areas, including helping investors turn their retirement assets into retirement income. For example, we recently introduced Income+, a service available to our Professional Management members which allows them to manage their defined contribution assets while directing payouts from their retirement accounts. We intend to invest significant resources to the research, development, sales and marketing of this new service. We have limited experience determining and executing income payments from defined contribution accounts. If our assessments or forecasts with respect to the expected duration and sufficiency of assets to support retirement income payments to participants are inaccurate, or if we fail to ensure that payouts are made at the times expected, our business and reputation could suffer. We may not be able to anticipate or manage new risks and obligations or legal, compliance or other requirements that may arise if we offer investment management or retirement income payout services for accounts other than 401(k) accounts. We may not be able to accurately estimate the impact of these future services on our business or how the benefits of these services will be perceived by our clients. In addition, the anticipated benefits of these services on our business may not outweigh the resources and costs associated with their development or the liabilities associated with their operation. If we do not 18 Table of Contents realize the anticipated benefits of these services, our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our revenue is highly dependent upon a small number of plan providers with whom we have relationships, and the renegotiation or termination of our relationship with any of these plan providers could significantly impact our business. Our relationships and data connections with plan providers allow us to effectively manage plan participant accounts and integrate our services into plan providers’ current service platforms. These relationships also provide us with an advantage in trying to sign potential plan sponsors. If a plan provider were to terminate our contract, reduce its volume of business, or substantially renegotiate the terms of its contract with us, our revenue could be harmed. We refer to three of our eight primary retirement plan provider relationships as subadvisory relationships. In March 2011, one additional plan provider announced an agreement to change to a subadvisory relationship for plan sponsors not currently under contract or in negotiations with us directly. For the provider relationships which we refer to as subadvised, we typically act as subadvisor to the plan provider acting as investment advisor, but we may directly act as investment advisor if Online Advice is the only service offered by a particular plan sponsor or for certain legacy plans. Where we act as subadvisor, we do not have a direct relationship with the plan sponsors and therefore may be less able to influence decisions by those plan sponsors to use or continue to use our services, or, if Online Advice is the only service offered by a particular plan sponsor, to add our Professional Management service. We have historically earned, and expect to continue to earn on a combined basis, a significant portion of our revenue through the three retirement plan providers with whom we had subadvisory relationships as of December 31, 2010. The renegotiation or termination of our relationship with any of these plan providers could negatively impact our business. For the year ended December 31, 2010, 19%, 9% and 6% of our total revenue was attributable to the subadvisory fees paid to us by JP Morgan, Vanguard and ING, respectively, the three plan providers with whom we had subadvisory relationships as of December 31, 2010. We receive additional revenue from fees paid to us directly by the online-only or legacy plan sponsors that receive plan administration services from certain of the providers with whom we have subadvisory relationships but such fees did not represent a significant portion of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our contracts with our eight primary retirement plan providers generally have terms ranging from three to five years, and have successive automatic renewal terms of one year unless terminated in accordance with prior notice requirements. A majority of these provider agreements are in renewal periods. A plan provider may also terminate its contract with us at any time for specified breaches. In addition, there are unpredictable factors, other than our performance, that could cause the loss of a plan provider. If we lose one of our plan providers with whom we have a relationship or if one of those plan providers significantly reduces its volume of business with us or renegotiates the economic terms of its contract with us, our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Some plan providers with whom we have relationships also provide or may provide competing services. Some plan providers with whom we have relationships, such as Fidelity, offer or may offer directly competing investment guidance, advice portfolio management and retirement income services to plan participants. We also face indirect competition from products that could potentially substitute for our services, most notably target-date retirement funds, which are offered by a number of plan providers with whom we have relationships, including J.P. Morgan, Fidelity and Vanguard. Among the plan sponsors to whom we offer our Professional Management service and that offer target-date funds, approximately 78% offer retail-priced target-date funds. Finally, some of our plan providers offer annuities and other retirement income products which compete with Income+. This competition with companies with whom we have relationships can strain the relationship with plan providers and may result in less favorable contract terms or contract cancellation, in which event our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 19 Table of Contents Our revenue is highly dependent upon the plan sponsors with whom we have relationships, and the renegotiation or termination of our relationship with one or more large plan sponsors could significantly impact our business. A substantial portion of our revenue is generated as a result of contracts with plan sponsors. Under these contracts, we earn annual platform fees that are paid by the plan sponsor, plan provider or the retirement plan itself as well as fees based on AUM that are generally paid by plan participants. Our contracts with plan sponsors typically have initial terms of three or five years and continue thereafter unless terminated. At any time during the initial term or thereafter, a plan sponsor can cancel a contract for fiduciary reasons or breach of contract. A plan sponsor can generally terminate a contract after the initial term upon 90 days’ notice. If a plan sponsor were to cancel or not renew a contract, we would no longer earn platform fees under that contract. In addition, we would no longer manage any assets in that plan and consequently would no longer earn fees based on AUM in that plan. If one or more plan sponsors were to cancel their contracts with us or fail to renew those contracts, our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our Professional Management service makes up a significant and growing part of our revenue base. Our business could suffer if fees we can charge for these services decline. We earn fees for our Professional Management service based on the value of assets in the accounts we manage, which we refer to as AUM. We believe that these services will continue to make up a substantial and growing portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. There are many investment advisory and management services and other financial products available in the marketplace, which could result in downward pressure on fees for our Professional Management service. Government regulation, such as legislative constraints on fees, could also limit the fees we can charge for our Professional Management service. Our contract terms may include thresholds, which upon attainment, may reduce the fees we charge for our Professional Management service. If we are forced to lower the fees we charge for our Professional Management service, our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our failure to increase the number of plan sponsors with whom we have relationships could harm our business. Our future success depends on increasing the number of plan sponsors with whom we have relationships. If the market for our services declines or develops more slowly than we expect, or the number of plan sponsors that choose to provide our services to their plan participants declines or fails to increase as we expect, revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We rely on plan providers and plan sponsors to provide us with accurate and timely plan and plan participant data in order for us to provide our services, and we rely on plan providers to execute transactions in the accounts we manage. Our ability to provide high-quality services depends on plan sponsors and plan providers supplying us with accurate and timely data in a usable format. Errors or delays in the data we receive from plan providers or plan sponsors, missing data, data transmitted in a format that we cannot readily use, or miscommunication about what data should be transmitted or in what format, could lead us to make advisory, transaction or disbursement errors that could harm our reputation or lead to financial liability, or may prevent us from providing our services to, or earning revenue from, otherwise eligible plan participants. In addition, when we make changes in an account we manage, or direct a disbursement, we instruct the plan provider to execute the transactions. If a plan provider fails to execute transactions in an accurate and timely manner, it could harm our reputation or lead to financial liability. In turn, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may be liable to our plan sponsors, plan participants or plan providers for damages caused by system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services. If we fail to prevent, detect or resolve errors in our services, regardless of the cause of the errors, our business and reputation could suffer. Errors in inputs or processing, such as plan set-ups, transaction instructions or plan participant data, could be magnified across many accounts. Concentrated positions held by many plan participants, 20 Table of Contents particularly in employer stock, could result in a large liability if a systematic input or processing error was to cause us to make errors in transactions relating to those positions. We may not be able to identify or resolve these errors in a timely manner. In addition, failure to perform our services for Professional Management members, including plan disbursements, on a timely basis could result in liability. We may also have liability to the plan provider where we have a subadvisory relationship with the plan provider. After an error is identified, resolving the error and implementing remedial measures would likely divert the attention and resources of our management and key technical personnel from other business concerns. Any errors in the performance of services for a plan sponsor or plan provider, or poor execution of these services, could result in a plan sponsor or plan provider terminating its agreement. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, these limitations on liability may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. ERISA and other applicable laws require that we meet a fiduciary obligation to plan participants. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions; however, this coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or may be unavailable in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. An insurer might disclaim coverage as to any future claim. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirement, in which event our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business and revenue. Our reputation, which depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of plan providers, plan sponsors and plan participants that are current and potential customers, is critical to our business. Our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. Regulatory inquiries or investigations, lawsuits initiated by other plan fiduciaries or plan participants, employee misconduct, perceptions of conflicts of interest and rumors, among other developments, could substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. In addition, any perception that the quality of our investment advice may not be the same or better than that of other providers could also damage our reputation. Any damage to our reputation could harm our ability to attract and retain plan providers, plan sponsor customers and key personnel. This damage could also cause plan participants to stop using or enrolling in our Professional Management service, which would adversely affect the amount of AUM on which we earn fees, in which event our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of plan provider, plan sponsor or plan participant data could lead to legal liability, adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our services involve the exchange of information, including detailed information regarding plan participants provided by plan providers and plan sponsors, through a variety of electronic and non-electronic means. In addition, plan participants routinely input personal investment and financial information, including portfolio holdings and, in some instances, credit card data, into our systems. We rely on a complex network of process and software controls to protect the confidentiality of data provided to us or stored on our systems. If we do not maintain adequate internal controls or fail to implement new or improved controls, this data could be misappropriated or confidentiality could otherwise be breached. We could be subject to liability if we inappropriately disclose any plan participant’s personal information, or if third parties are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise gain access to any plan participant’s name, address, portfolio holdings, credit card number or other personal information. Any such event could subject us to claims for unauthorized credit card purchases, identity theft or other similar fraud claims or claims for other misuses of personal information, such as unauthorized marketing or unauthorized access to personal information. Many of our agreements with plan sponsors and plan providers do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality and consequential damages. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security, misappropriates or mishandles sensitive data, inadvertently or otherwise, we could be subject to significant liability from our plan sponsors and plan providers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. In addition, our agreements with plan sponsors and plan providers require us to meet specified minimum system security and privacy standards. Given the growing concern over privacy and identity theft, we have been and expect to continue to be subject to increased scrutiny by both plan providers and plan sponsors, which 21 Table of Contents have increased the frequency and thoroughness of their audits. If we fail to meet these standards, our plan sponsors and plan providers may seek to terminate their agreements with us. Regulations in some states may require notification via the press in the event of security breaches, which could further harm our reputation. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation, cause us to lose business, harm our revenue, operating results or financial condition and subject us to regulatory action, which could include sanctions and fines. Privacy concerns could require us to modify our operations. As part of our business, we use plan participants’ personal data. For privacy or security reasons, privacy groups, governmental agencies and individuals may seek to restrict or prevent our use of this data. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, expenses to comply with privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Increased domestic or international regulation of data utilization and distribution practices, including self-regulation, could require us to modify our operations and incur significant additional expense, in which event our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Acquisition activity involving plan providers or plan sponsors could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions or similar transactions involving our plan providers or plan sponsors could negatively affect our business in a number of ways. After such a transaction, the plan provider or plan sponsor might terminate, not renew or seek to renegotiate the economic terms of its contract with us. Companies involved in these transactions may experience integration difficulties that could increase the risk of providing us inaccurate or untimely data or delay in service availability. Any of our existing plan sponsors may be acquired by an organization or a plan sponsor with no relationship with us, effectively terminating our relationship, or be acquired by a plan sponsor with an online services-only relationship rather than a Professional Management relationship which might cause us to lose business and harm our revenue, operating results or financial condition. Plan providers could be acquired by a company offering competing services to ours, which could increase the risk that they terminate their relationship with us, or be acquired by an organization with no relationship with us which might cause us to lose that plan provider, have to renegotiate the economic terms of their contract with us and harm our revenue, operating results or financial condition. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that these corporate actions may have on our revenue, operating results or financial condition. Our ability to compete, succeed and generate profits depends, in part, on our ability to obtain accurate and timely data from third-party vendors on commercially reasonable terms. We currently obtain market and other financial data we use to generate our investment advice from a number of third-party vendors. Termination of one or more of these vendor agreements, exclusion from, or restricted use of a data provider’s information could decrease the information available for us to use and offer our clients. We do not currently have secondary sources or other suppliers for some of these data items and the lack of these resources may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If these data feed agreements were terminated, backup services would take time to set up and our business and results of operations could be harmed. We rely on these data suppliers to provide timely and accurate information, and their failure to do so could harm our business. In addition, some data suppliers may seek to increase licensing fees for providing content to us. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may experience a reduction in our operating margins or market share, in which event our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our portfolio management and investment advisory operations may subject us to liability for losses that result from a breach of our fiduciary duties. Our portfolio management and investment advisory operations involve fiduciary obligations that require us to act in the best interests of the plan participants to whom we provide advice or for whom we manage accounts. We may face liabilities for actual or claimed breaches of our fiduciary duties. We may not be able to prevent plan participants, 22 Table of Contents plan sponsors or the plan providers to or through whom we provide investment advisory services from taking legal action against us for an actual or claimed breach of a fiduciary duty. Because we currently provide investment advisory services on substantial assets, we could face substantial liability to plan participants or plan sponsors if we breach our fiduciary duties. In addition, we may face liabilities for actual or claimed deficiencies in the quality or outcome of our investment advisory recommendations, investment management and other services, even in the absence of an actual or claimed breach of fiduciary duty. While we believe that we would have substantial and meritorious defenses against such a claim, we cannot predict the outcome or consequences of any such potential litigation. Competition could reduce our share of the portfolio management, investment advisory and retirement planning market and hurt our financial performance. We operate in a highly competitive industry, with many investment advice providers competing for business from individual investors, financial advisors and institutional customers. Direct competitors that offer independent portfolio management and investment advisory services to plan participants in the workplace include Morningstar, Inc., GuidedChoice and ProManage LLC. Plan providers that offer directly competing portfolio management and investment advisory services to investors in the workplace include Fidelity and Merrill Lynch. We currently have a relationship with Fidelity that allows us to provide our services to plan sponsors that elect to hire us for which Fidelity is the plan provider. We also face indirect competition from products that could potentially substitute for our portfolio management services, investment advice and retirement income, most notably target-date retirement funds. Target-date funds are offered by multiple financial institutions, including BlackRock, T. Rowe Price, Fidelity and Vanguard. These funds provide generic asset allocation based on the investment horizon of the investor. Target-date funds, managed accounts and balanced funds have been granted Qualified Default Investment Alternative, or QDIA, status by the Department of Labor. In addition, with the introduction of the Income+ feature, indirect competitors who offer income solutions in retirement include providers of insurance products. Plan providers offer or may choose to offer directly and indirectly competitive products in the future. The plan providers with which we do not have contractually exclusive relationships may enter into similar relationships with our competitors. This in turn may harm our business. Many of our competitors have larger customer bases and significantly greater resources than we do. This may allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new technologies and changes in demand for services, to devote greater resources developing and promoting their services and to make more attractive offers to potential plan providers, plan sponsors and plan participants. Industry consolidation may also lead to more intense competition. Increased competition could result in price reductions or loss of market share, in which event our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees, including our executive officers. Our ability to provide portfolio management services, investment advice and retirement income and maintain and develop relationships with plan participants, plan providers and plan sponsors depends largely on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled professionals, particularly professionals with backgrounds in sales, technology and financial and investment services. We believe that success in our business will continue to be based upon the strength of our intellectual capital. For example, due to the complexity of our services and the intellectual capital invested in our investment methodology and technology, the loss of personnel integral to our investment research, product development and engineering efforts would harm our ability to maintain and grow our business. Consequently, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to continue to develop our services and effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the growth of our operations. We believe there is significant competition for professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. We experience competition for analysts and other employees from financial institutions and financial services organizations such as hedge funds and investment management companies that generally have greater resources than we do and therefore may be able to offer higher compensation packages. Competition for these employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain our existing employees or be able to recruit and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. If we cannot hire and retain qualified personnel, our ability to continue to expand our business would be impaired and our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 23 Table of Contents If our intellectual property and technology are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, our business and competitive position could suffer. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We also require our employees, consultants, vendors, plan sponsors and plan providers to enter into confidentiality agreements with us. We currently have 12 issued U.S. patents which relate to novel aspects of our financial advisory platform, including user interface features, our pricing module, load-aware optimization, advice palatability, financial goal planning and other key technologies of our outcomes-based investing methodologies. We also have several additional pending U.S. patent applications. In addition, we have issued patents and pending patent applications in foreign jurisdictions. One or more of our issued patents or pending patent applications may be called into question on the basis of being directed to abstract ideas or methods of doing or conducting business. The general validity of software patents and so called “business method” patents have been challenged in a number of jurisdictions, including the United States. Changes in patent laws or case law may impact the scope of patent-eligible subject matter by, for example, limiting what constitutes a patentable “process.” Our patents may become less valuable if software or business methods are found to be a non-patentable subject matter or if additional requirements are imposed that our patents do not meet. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our proprietary technology. Our patent and trademark applications may not lead to issued patents and registered trademarks. There can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar or superior technologies, products or services, or that our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by others. The legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive and our monitoring and policing activities may not be sufficient to identify any misappropriation and protect our proprietary technology. In addition, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and litigation may be necessary to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. If litigation is necessary to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, any such litigation could be very costly and could divert management attention and resources. We also expect that the more successful we are, the more likely it becomes that competitors will try to develop products that are similar to ours, which may infringe on our proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights or if third parties independently develop or gain access to our or similar technologies, our business, revenue, operating results, financial condition, reputation and competitive position could be harmed. Third parties may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us, or our services may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may subject us to legal liability and harm our reputation. Assertion of intellectual property infringement claims against us, plan providers or plan sponsors could result in litigation. We might not prevail in any such litigation or be able to obtain a license for the use of any infringed intellectual property from a third party on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Even if obtained, we may be unable to protect such licenses from infringement or misuse, or prevent infringement claims against us in connection with our licensing efforts. We expect that the risk of infringement claims against us will increase if more of our competitors are able to obtain patents for software products and business processes, and if we hire employees who possess third party proprietary information. Any such claims, regardless of their merit or ultimate outcome, could result in substantial cost to us, divert management’s attention and our resources away from our operations and otherwise harm our reputation. Our process for controlling employees’ use of third party proprietary information may not be sufficient to prevent assertions of intellectual property infringement claims against us. If we are not successful in overcoming such claims and are required to pay damages, licensing fees or fines, our revenue, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 24 Table of Contents Any inability to manage our growth could disrupt our business and harm our operating results. We expect our growth to place significant demands on our management and other resources. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage growth effectively. Expansion creates new and increased management and training responsibilities for our employees. In addition, continued growth increases the challenges involved in: • recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled technical, marketing, sales and management personnel; • preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; • successfully expanding the range of services offered to our plan sponsors and plan participants; • developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, compliance, recordkeeping, communications and other internal systems; and • maintaining high levels of satisfaction with our services among plan sponsors and plan participants. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and our failure to raise capital when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to fund our planned capital expenditures and other anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain debt financing. If we decide to seek additional financing, it may result in additional dilution to existing stockholders or, in the case of debt, may result in additional operating or financial covenants. We have not made arrangements to obtain additional financing and there is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We will be subject to additional regulatory compliance requirements, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as a result of becoming a public company and our management has limited experience managing a public company. We have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses as a public company. The individuals who constitute our management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company and limited experience complying with the increasingly complex and changing laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to new compliance initiatives, and we may not continue to successfully or efficiently manage our transition into a public company. We expect rules and regulations such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Investor Protection and Securities Reform Act of 2010 to increase our legal and finance compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We will need to engage additional resources with public accounting and disclosure experience in order to meet our ongoing obligations as a public company. For example, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that our management report on, and our independent auditors attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. Section 404 compliance may divert internal resources and will take a significant amount of time and effort to complete. We may not be able to successfully complete the procedures and certification and attestation requirements of Section 404 by the time we will be required to do so. If we fail to do so, or if in the future our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Stock Market, the SEC, or other regulatory authorities. Furthermore, investor perceptions of our company may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Irrespective of compliance with Section 404, any failure of our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stated results of operations and harm our reputation. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in an adverse opinion on internal controls from our independent auditors. 25 Table of Contents Our insiders who are significant stockholders may influence the election of our board and may have interests that conflict with those of other stockholders. Our directors and executive officers, together with members of their immediate families, beneficially own, in the aggregate, a significant portion of our outstanding capital stock. As a result, acting together, this group has the ability to exercise significant influence over most matters requiring our stockholders’ approval, including the election and removal of directors and significant corporate transactions. We could face liability for certain information we disclose, including information based on data we obtain from other parties. We may be subject to claims for securities law violations, negligence, or other claims relating to the information we disclose, such as the mutual fund assessments we call “scorecards.” Individuals who use our services may take legal action against us if they rely on information that contains an error, or a company may claim that we have made a defamatory statement about it or its employees. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites. We rely on a variety of outside parties as the original sources for the information we use in our published data. These sources include securities exchanges, fund companies and transfer agents. Accordingly, in addition to possible exposure for publishing incorrect information that results directly from our own errors, we could face liability based on inaccurate data provided to us by others. Defending claims based on the information we publish could be expensive and time-consuming and could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. If our operations are interrupted as a result of service downtime or interruptions, our business and reputation could suffer. The success of our business depends upon our ability to obtain and deliver time-sensitive, up-to-date data and information. Our operations and those of our plan providers and plan sponsors are vulnerable to interruption by technical breakdowns, computer hardware and software malfunctions, software viruses, infrastructure failures, fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, wars, Internet failures and other events beyond our control. Any disruption in our services or operations could harm our ability to perform our services effectively which in turn could result in a reduction in revenue or a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of whether we are responsible for that failure. We rely on our computer equipment, database storage facilities and other office equipment, which are located primarily in the seismically active San Francisco Bay area. We maintain off-site back-up facilities in Phoenix, Arizona for our database and network equipment, but these facilities could be subject to the same interruptions that may affect our headquarters. If we suffer a significant database or network facility outage, our business could experience disruption until we fully implement our back-up systems. We also depend on certain significant vendors for facility storage and related maintenance of our main technology equipment and data at these locations. Any failure by these vendors to perform those services, any temporary or permanent loss of our equipment or systems or any disruptions to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications could impede our ability to provide services to our plan participants, harm our reputation, cause plan participants to stop using our investment advisory or Professional Management services, reduce our revenue and harm our business. Our agreements with our plan providers or plan sponsors also require us to meet specified minimum system security and privacy standards. If we fail to meet these standards, our plan sponsors and plan providers may seek to terminate their agreements with us. This in turn could damage our reputation and harm our market position and business. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in laws applicable to our services may adversely affect our business. We may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations promulgated by Congress, the SEC, Department of Labor or other U.S. regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets and retirement industry. In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. It is difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding 26 Table of Contents legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business. For example, legislation or regulation regarding fees may affect our business. Future legislation or regulation could change or eliminate certain existing restrictions relating to conflicts of interest, which might lower the relative value of our independence, or reduce or eliminate tax benefits associated with defined contribution plans or otherwise restructure defined contribution plans in a way that affects their use by plan sponsors or plan participants, which could cause a reduction in the number of plans where our services are offered or slow our AUM growth. Changes to laws or regulations, or any change that results in our becoming subject to the jurisdiction of any additional regulator, such as a self-regulatory organization, could increase our potential liability for offering portfolio management services, investment advice and retirement income, affect our ability to offer our Passive Enrollment option or invalidate pre-dispute arbitration clauses in our agreements, leading to increased costs to litigate any claims against us. Changes to laws or regulations could also increase our legal compliance costs, divert internal resources and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The laws, rules and regulations applicable to our business may change in the future, and we may not be able to comply with any such changes. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation, we could be fined, sanctioned or barred from providing investment advisory services in the future, which could materially harm our business and reputation. We are subject to complex regulation, and any compliance failures or regulatory action could adversely affect our business. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels. It is very difficult to predict the future impact of the legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business. The securities laws and other laws that govern our activities as a registered investment advisor are complex and subject to rapid change. The activities of our investment advisory and management operations are subject primarily to provisions of the Investment Advisers Act and ERISA, as well as certain state laws. We are a fiduciary under ERISA. Our investment advisory services are also subject to state laws including anti-fraud laws and regulations. The Investment Advisers Act addresses, among other things, fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements and disclosure requirements and also includes general anti-fraud prohibitions. If we fail to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation, we could be fined, sanctioned or barred from providing investment advisory services in the future, which could materially harm our business and reputation. We may also become subject to additional regulatory and compliance requirements as a result of any expansion or enhancement of our existing services or any services we may offer in the future. For example, we may be subject to insurance licensing or other requirements in connection with our retirement planning services, even if our activities are limited to describing regulated products. Compliance with any new regulatory requirements may divert internal resources and take significant time and effort. Any claim of noncompliance, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, could subject us to investigation by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. This in turn could result in substantial cost to us and divert management’s attention and other resources away from our operations. Furthermore, investor perceptions of us may suffer, and this could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our compliance processes may not be sufficient to prevent assertions that we failed to comply with any applicable law, rule or regulation. We face additional scrutiny when we act as subadvisor, and any failure to comply with regulations or meet expectations could harm our business. Some of the plan providers to whom we are subadvisors are broker-dealers registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to as the Exchange Act, and are subject to the rules of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or FINRA. When we act as a subadvisor, we may be subject to the oversight by regulators of another advisor. We may be affected by any regulatory examination of that plan provider. In addition, our subadvisory arrangements are structured to follow Advisory Opinion 2001-09A, a Department of Labor opinion provided to SunAmerica Retirement Markets. Although an advisory opinion provides guidance about the Department of Labor’s interpretation of ERISA, it is directly applicable only to the entity to which it is issued. SunAmerica Retirement Markets is an entity unrelated to us or the plan providers to which we act as subadvisor. We could be adversely affected if the Department of Labor increases examination of these subadvisory arrangements or changes the interpretive positions described in the Advisory Opinion. We could be adversely affected if ERISA is amended in a way that overturns or materially changes the Department of Labor’s position in 27 Table of Contents Advisory Opinion 2001-09A, such as the imposition of additional requirements relating to conflicts of interest on the plan providers to which we act as a subadvisor. Future legislation or regulation could impose additional requirements relating to conflicts of interest on some of the plan providers to which we act as a subadvisor. These plan providers may not be able to comply with these requirements, and we may therefore not be able to continue to provide our services on a subadvised basis. In such event, we could incur additional costs to transition our services for affected plan providers and their plan sponsors to another structure. Legislation has been introduced in Congress and there have been several Congressional hearings addressing these issues, although final versions of these bills have not been adopted and signed into law, and the final scope and wording of the legislation, or the implementing rules and regulations, are not yet known. If government regulation of the Internet or other areas of our business changes or if consumer attitudes toward use of the Internet change, we may need to change the manner in which we conduct our business or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption, modification or interpretation of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could adversely affect the manner in which we conduct our business or the overall popularity or growth in use of the Internet. Such laws and regulations may cover sales and other procedures, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses, make it more difficult to renew subscriptions automatically, make it more difficult to attract new subscribers or otherwise alter our business model. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business will suffer if we do not keep up with rapid technological change, evolving industry standards or changing requirements of plan sponsors and plan participants. We expect technological developments to continue at a rapid pace in our industry. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • continue to develop our technology expertise; • recruit and retain skilled investment and technology professionals; • enhance our current services; • develop new services that meet changing plan sponsor and plan participant needs; • advertise and market our services; and • influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. In addition, we must continue to meet changing plan provider and plan sponsor expectations and requirements, including addressing plan complexities and meeting plan provider and plan sponsor demands for specific features and delivery dates. We must accomplish all of these tasks in a timely and cost-effective manner, and our failure to do so could harm our business, including materially reducing our revenue and operating results. Further, a key aspect of our growth strategy is to expand our investment research capabilities and introduce new services. We expect that our research and development expense will continue to represent a meaningful percentage of our revenue in the future. A viable market for our new service offerings may not exist or develop, and our offerings may not be well received by potential plan sponsor customers or individual plan participants or investors. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our share price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, since shares of our 28 Table of Contents common stock were sold in our initial public offering in March 2010 at a price of $12.00 per share, our closing stock price has ranged from $12.35 to $19.97 for the period March 16, 2010 to December 31, 2010. The market price of shares of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • general economic and market conditions; • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected results or our announcement of revenue or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies engaged in providing portfolio management services, investment advice and retirement income; • loss of a significant amount of existing business; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rates; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our plan sponsors or our competitors; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • issuances, sales or expected sales of additional common stock; and • terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our plan sponsors have operations. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by a large stockholder could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. In addition, the average daily trading volume in our stock is relatively low. The lack of trading activity in our stock may lead to greater fluctuations in our stock price. Low trading volume may also make it difficult for a stockholder to make transactions in a timely fashion. 29 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 