D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We are highly dependent on charter payments from CMA CGM. All but four of our 19 vessels are chartered to CMA CGM. CMA CGM’s payments to us under these charters are our principal source of operating revenue. We are consequently highly dependent on the performance by CMA CGM of its obligations under these charters. The container shipping industry suffered a significant cyclical downturn in the second half of 2008 and through 2009, with positive industry conditions returning in 2010. The industry suffered a further cyclical downturn in 2011 and many container shipping companies reported substantial losses. Financial performance of container shipping companies improved in 2012, 2013 and 2014, however, the industry remains under pressure due to oversupply of container ship capacity. We have experienced, from time to time, delays in receiving charterhire payments from CMA CGM, which under the charter contracts are due to be paid on the 1st and 16th of each month, in advance. Up to two instalments were outstanding at times during 2014. As at December 31, 2014, no charterhire was outstanding. If CMA CGM ceases doing business or fails to perform its obligations under our charters, our business, financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected as it is probable that, even if we were able to find replacement charters, such replacement charters would be at significantly lower daily rates and for shorter durations. If such events occur, there would be significant uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. 3 Table of Contents We are dependent on third parties to manage our ships. All but two of our 19 vessels are managed by CMA Ships, a wholly owned subsidiary of CMA CGM, which, for an annual management fee of $123,000 per vessel, is responsible for all day-to-day ship management, including crewing, purchasing stores, lubricating oils and spare parts, paying wages, pensions and insurance for the crew, and organizing other vessel operating necessities, including the arrangement and management of drydocking. Our ship management agreements with CMA Ships may be terminated by either party on two months written notice. In the future, CMA Ships may demand a higher fee or other more favorable terms in consideration for its services or decide to terminate its agreements with us. The prices or terms of new ship management agreements with CMA Ships or an alternate provider may be significantly less favorable to us than the terms of our existing ship management agreements. Our other two vessels are managed by a ship manager based in Hong Kong, on similar terms. CMA CGM and CMA Ships are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. CMA CGM is our principal charterer and its wholly owned subsidiary, CMA Ships, is our principal ship manager. CMA CGM has guaranteed the performance of CMA Ships under the ship management agreements. CMA CGM’s ability to continue to pay charterhire and CMA Ships’ ability to render ship management services will depend in part on their own financial position. Circumstances beyond their control could impair CMA CGM’s and CMA Ships’ financial position, and because they are privately held companies, limited information about their financial position is publicly available. As a result, we and an investor in our securities might have little advance warning of financial or other difficulties affecting CMA CGM or its wholly owned subsidiaries even though their financial or other difficulties could have a material adverse effect on us. CMA CGM and CMA Ships have conflicts of interest with us which may make them favor their own interests to our detriment. As at December 31, 2014, CMA CGM owned approximately 44.4% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, CMA CGM has the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and its concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. In addition, the standstill provisions of the stockholders agreement entered into between us, CMA CGM and Marathon Founders, LLC, at the time of the Merger, expired on August 14, 2013. Accordingly, CMA CGM is no longer precluded from acquiring additional shares of our common stock or initiating changes to our board of directors. In May 2014 we appointed two additional directors to our board with those seats filled by CMA CGM nominees. Under our bylaws, in order for the approval of contracts or transactions involving a related party not to be voidable (1) any interested director’s relationship or interest as to the contract or transaction must be disclosed to the board of directors and such contract or transaction is authorized by a majority of the disinterested directors (or, in certain cases, all of the disinterested directors) or (2) the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the shareholders. Furthermore, our corporate governance guidelines require a director with a personal interest in a matter being approved by the board of directors to disclose the interest, to recuse himself or herself from participation in the discussion and to not vote on the matter. Moreover, conflicts of interest may also arise between us, on the one hand, and CMA CGM, our charterer, or CMA Ships, our principal ship manager, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, CMA Ships may favor its own or its parent company’s interests over our interests. These conflicts may have unfavorable consequences for us. Although our ship management agreements expressly prohibit CMA Ships from giving preferential treatment when performing any of its ship management services to any other vessel that is affiliated with it, or otherwise controlled by CMA CGM, conflicts of interest may arise between us, and CMA Ships as ship manager and CMA CGM as charterer. These risks may be exacerbated in the event that CMA CGM elects to exert more influence in the management of our business through its nominated board representation, acquiring additional shares of our common stock or otherwise. 4 Table of Contents Our financial reporting is dependent on CMA Ships. Under the ship management agreements with CMA Ships, CMA Ships is obliged to provide us with requisite financial information on a timely basis so that we can meet our own reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. CMA Ships and its parent company CMA CGM are privately held corporations with financial reporting arrangements different from ours. If CMA Ships or any of its affiliates is delayed in providing us with key financial information, we could fail to meet our financial reporting deadlines, which could lead to regulatory sanctions being imposed on us and cause us to default on reporting covenants under our financing agreements. Any such results may have a material adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition and reputation. CMA CGM could compete with us. Along with many other vessel-owning companies, CMA CGM, currently our principal charterer and largest holder of our common shares, could compete with us for the purchase of vessels. Further, CMA CGM is not precluded from acting as an owner in the direct chartering market. While we understand that CMA CGM currently has no intention of becoming such an owner, competition from CMA CGM may potentially harm our ability to grow the business and may decrease our results of operations. Certain terms in our agreements with CMA CGM and its affiliates may be the result of negotiations that were not conducted at arms-length and may not reflect market standard terms. In addition, they may include terms that may not be obtained from future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The initial charters, the ship management agreements and the other contractual agreements, including the terms of the Series A preferred shares and the subsequent agreement to redeem these in August 2014, we have entered into with CMA CGM and its wholly owned subsidiaries were made during an affiliated relationship in the context of a previously contemplated public offering of our Class A common shares in 2007, the Merger in August 2008 and other related transactions. New charters, now expired, that came into effect on the expiration of the initial charters in September 2012 for Ville d’Aquarius and Ville d’Orion were also agreed with CMA CGM, a significant shareholder and related party. Further, we agreed with CMA CGM, with effect from February 1, 2014, to extend by three years the charters on four other vessels at a lower on-going daily charter rate. Our agreements with CMA CGM may include terms that could not have been obtained from arms-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services and assets. As a result, our future operating results may be negatively affected if we do not receive terms as favorable in future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. Our growth depends on our ability to purchase further vessels, obtain new charters and maintain our relationship with CMA CGM. We will require additional financing to be able to grow and will face substantial competition. One of our objectives is to grow by acquiring additional vessels and chartering them out to container shipping companies potentially including CMA CGM. Acquisition of vessels will be challenging as, inter alia, we may need to obtain additional financing in order to complete vessel purchases. Due to the continuing effects of the economic downturn and the severe cyclical downturn in the container shipping industry, financing for investment in containerships, whether newbuildings or existing vessels, is severely limited. Further, the cost of any available financing has increased significantly. In addition, in recent years, the number of lenders for shipping companies has decreased and lenders have generally lowered their loan-to-value advance ratios, shortened loan terms and accelerated repayment schedules. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers and proposed charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. These factors may hinder our ability to access financing and we may be unable to obtain adequate funding for growth. The process of obtaining further vessels and new charters is highly competitive. The purchase of vessels and gaining of new charters depends on a variety of factors relating to the vessel owner, including: • competitiveness of overall price; 5 Table of Contents • availability of committed financing; • containership leasing experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • shipping industry relationships and reputation for reliability, customer service and safety; • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • ability to finance containerships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths for newbuildings; and • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications. We will face substantial competition in expanding our business from a number of experienced companies. Many of these competitors may have greater financial resources than us, may also operate larger fleets, may have been established for longer and may be able to offer better charter rates. During any industry downturn there are an increased number of vessels available for charter, including many from owners with strong reputations and experience. Excess supply of vessels results in greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to purchase additional containerships, expand our relationships with CMA CGM or to obtain new charters on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to recharter our vessels at profitable rates, if at all, upon their time charter expiry. The time charters for two of our 19 containerships can be terminated on 30 days’ notice and will in any case expire no later than June 3, 2015 and July 17, 2015. While we generally expect to be able to obtain new time charters for our vessels within a reasonable period prior to their expiry, we cannot be assured that this will occur in any particular case, or at all. In addition, the supply/demand balance for containerships has been under pressure since late 2008 with, from time to time, a significant number of vessels idle and charter rates in the spot market depressed and we may not be able to secure charter rates at the same level as the current time charters. If we are unable to obtain new time charters for these containerships at favorable rates or are unable to secure new charters, in which case the vessels would be idle and we would continue to incur certain operating costs but earn no revenue, at all it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. We are highly leveraged. As at December 31, 2014, we had $420.0 million of secured indebtedness outstanding (all of which is represented by our notes) and we had availability of $40.0 million under our senior secured revolving credit facility (the “revolving credit facility”). The revolving credit facility was drawn in full to partly fund the purchase of our 19th vessel on March 11, 2015. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of interest on our indebtedness and up to $20.0 million to repurchase notes under the Excess Cash Flow offer, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flows to fund operations, capital expenditure and future business opportunities; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, including the revolving credit facility and notes, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the indenture governing the notes and the agreements governing such other indebtedness; 6 Table of Contents • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage may prevent us from exploiting. Despite our indebtedness levels, we may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing the notes and our revolving credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, the indenture governing the notes and our revolving credit facility will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness thereunder. Our covenants also permit us to incur substantial non-recourse indebtedness in subsidiaries that do not guarantee our obligations under our notes. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. The indenture governing the notes and our revolving credit facility contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred stock; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments and investments; • create certain liens; • transfer or sell assets; • enter into certain transactions with affiliates; • merge, consolidate or sell all or substantially all of our properties and assets; • create or designate unrestricted subsidiaries; and • impair the security interests. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the revolving credit facility require us to satisfy certain financial condition tests at the risk of default or reduction and cancellation of certain commitments under the revolving credit facility. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. 7 Table of Contents Due to the restrictive covenants under our revolving credit facility, we may need to seek consent from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate and commercial actions that we believe would be in the best interest of our business, and a denial of consent may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Our lenders’ interests may be different from our interests, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. Any future agreements governing our indebtedness may include similar or more restrictive restrictions. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of these agreements, including as a result of cross default provisions, and, in the case of our revolving credit facility, permit the lenders to cease making loans to us. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility to be immediately due and payable. Such actions by the lenders could cause cross defaults under the indenture governing our notes. Substantially all of the assets currently owned by us serve as security under our revolving credit facility and for our notes. If our operating performance declines, we may be required to obtain waivers from the holders of our notes and the lenders under the revolving credit facility to avoid default thereunder. If we are not able to obtain a waiver from the holders of our notes and the lenders under the revolving credit facility, the lenders could exercise their rights upon default and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The vessels’ mortgagor or other maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt the charterer’s or our cash flow. If we default under our revolving credit facility or on our notes, our lenders under our revolving credit facility and/or holders of our notes who hold mortgages on our vessels could arrest some or all of our vessels and cause them to be sold. We would not receive any proceeds of such sale unless all amounts outstanding under such indebtedness had been repaid in full. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels, for valid or invalid reasons, could interrupt the charterer’s or our cash flow and require the charterer or us or our insurance to pay a significant amount to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another vessel in our fleet. In any event, any lien imposed may adversely affect our results of operations by delaying the revenue gained from ships. Vessel values may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our financial condition, result in the incurrence of a loss upon disposal of a vessel or increase the cost of acquiring additional vessels. Vessel values may fluctuate due to a number of different factors, including: • general economic and market conditions affecting the shipping industry; • the types, sizes and demand for available vessels; • the availability of other modes of transportation; • increases in the supply of vessel capacity; • the cost of newbuildings; • governmental or other regulations; and 8 Table of Contents • the need to upgrade second hand and previously owned vessels as a result of charterer requirements, technological advances in vessel design or equipment, or otherwise. In addition, as vessels grow older, they generally decline in value. Due to the cyclical nature of the container market, if for any reason we sell any of our owned vessels at a time when prices are depressed, we could incur a loss and our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, under our current time charter agreements with CMA CGM, the charterer has a right of first refusal should we decide to sell the vessel during or at the end of the charter period. If they do not exercise this right, we are entitled to sell the vessel, subject to their prior approval, which cannot be unreasonably withheld. We may be forced to sell our vessels for a lesser amount because of these constraints. Moreover, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions we may incur a loss that could adversely affect our operating results. Conversely, if vessel values are elevated at a time when we wish to acquire additional vessels, the cost of acquisition may increase and this could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. Our vessels may be subject to extended periods of off-hire, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the time charters for our vessels, when the vessel is not available for service, it will likely be “off-hire,” and the charterer is generally not required to pay hire, and we will be responsible for all costs unless the charterer is responsible for the circumstances giving rise to the lack of availability. A vessel generally will be deemed to be off-hire if there is an occurrence that affects the full working condition of the vessel, such as: • any drydocking for repairs, maintenance or classification society inspection; • any damage, defect, breakdown or deficiency of the ship’s hull, machinery or equipment or repairs or maintenance thereto; • any deficiency of the ship’s master, officers and/or crew, including the failure, refusal or inability of the ship’s master, officers and/or crew to perform the service immediately required, whether or not within its control; • its deviation, other than to save life or property, which results in charterer’s lost time; • crewing labor boycotts or certain vessel arrests; • our failure to maintain the vessel in compliance with the charter’s requirements, such as maintaining operational certificates. • the vessel’s declared performance speed is reduced or fuel consumption is increased by more than 5% over a specified period of time; or • the vessel is requisitioned by any government or governmental authority. Additionally, the charterer may have the right to terminate the charter agreement under a number of circumstances, such as, if: • the vessel is off-hire for a specified number of days, in the case of our charters with CMA CGM more than 90 consecutive days, and the vessel is free of cargo; • the charterer informs us of a default under the charter, and the default is not rectified, in the case of our charters with CMA CGM, within 60 days of such notice; 9 Table of Contents • there is a total (actual or constructive) loss of the vessel; • the vessel is requisitioned by any government or governmental authority; or • a vessel’s declared performance speed is reduced or fuel consumption increased in excess of 10% over a continuous period of 30 days, and the reason is within our or the vessel’s control. We may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from acquisitions of vessels or container shipping-related assets, and implementing our growth strategy through acquisitions which may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes, among other things, selectively acquiring secondhand and, potentially, newbuilding vessels and we may also seek to diversify our asset base by acquiring containers and other container shipping-related assets if an attractive investment opportunity presents itself in the future. Growing any business through acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and obtaining the necessary resources to manage an enlarged business. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans, that we will be able to employ any acquired vessels under long-term charters, that we will be able to purchase secondhand vessels or newbuildings at satisfactory prices or obtain ship management agreements with similar or better terms than those we have obtained from CMA Ships, that we will be able to purchase containers and subsequently lease them out at satisfactory prices or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with our future growth. Factors that may limit our ability to acquire additional vessels and container shipping-related assets include competition from other owners and lessors, availability of financing, shipyard capacity for newbuildings and the limited number of modern vessels with appropriate characteristics not already subject to existing long-term or other charters. Competition from other purchasers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel or container shipping-related assets may not be profitable to us and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that we may: • fail to obtain financing, ship management agreements and charters on acceptable terms; • be unable, including through our ship managers, to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate our enlarged business and fleet; • fail to realize anticipated benefits of cost savings or cash flow enhancements; • decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions or by additional repayments of debt; • significantly increase our interest expense or financial leverage if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; or • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the vessels acquired. Should we expand our business or provide services to third parties, we may need to improve our operating and financial systems, expand our commercial and technical management staff, and recruit suitable employees and crew for our vessels. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we expand the size of our fleet or begin to lease containers, and attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. In addition, we may need to recruit suitable additional administrative and management personnel to manage any growth. We may not be able to 10 Table of Contents continue to hire suitable employees in such circumstances. If a shortage of experienced labor exists or if we encounter business or financial difficulties, we may not be able to adequately staff our vessels. If we expand our fleet, or begin to lease containers, and we are unable to grow our financial and operating systems or to recruit suitable employees, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We are exposed to risks associated with the purchase and operation of secondhand vessels. Secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition at the time of acquisition. While we would generally inspect secondhand containerships prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of the vessel’s condition as if it had been built for and operated by us during its life. Future repairs and maintenance costs for secondhand vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for equivalent vessels of which we have had direct experience. These additional costs could decrease our cash flow and reduce our liquidity. There can be no assurance that market conditions will justify such expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of the economic lives of such vessels. We may not perform underwater inspections of vessels prior to purchase. Although we would perform physical inspections of any vessel prior to its purchase, it may not be possible for us to undertake any underwater inspections. As a result, we will not be aware of any damage to a vessel that may have existed at the time of purchase and which could only be discovered through an underwater inspection. However, if any damage is subsequently found, we could incur substantial costs to repair the damage which would not be recoverable from the sellers. Our ability to grow may be reduced by the introduction of new accounting rules for leasing. International and U.S. accounting standard-setting organizations have proposed the elimination of allowing operating leases to not be recorded on the balance sheet. The proposals are still under discussion. The date for implementation is now unlikely to be before 2017. If the proposals are adopted as currently proposed, they would have the effect of bringing most off-balance sheet operating leases, including time charters, onto a lessee’s balance sheet as liabilities. This proposed change could affect charterers by causing them to breach certain financial covenants. This may make them less likely to enter into time charters for our containerships, which could reduce our growth opportunities. We must make substantial expenditures to maintain our fleet and to acquire vessels. We must make substantial expenditures to maintain our fleet and we generally expect to finance these maintenance expenditures from operating cashflow. In addition, we will need to make substantial capital expenditures to acquire vessels in accordance with our growth strategy. Further, we may be obliged to incur substantial expenditure to become compliant with changes in the regulatory environment, particularly concerning clean air and ballast water. Maintenance expenditures could increase as a result of, among other things, the cost of labor and materials, customer requirements and governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards relating to safety, security or the environment. If we are unable to generate sufficient operating cash flow, we will need to fund these significant expenditures, including those required to maintain our fleet, with borrowings under our revolving credit facility or otherwise find alternative sources of financing. Such alternatives may not be available on economic terms or at all. As our fleet ages, we may incur increased operating costs, which would adversely affect our earnings. In general, the day-to-day cost of operating and maintaining a vessel increases with age. In addition, older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and may attract lower charter rates compared to modern more fuel efficient vessels. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards may also require expenditures for modifications or the addition of new equipment and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify any such expenditures or expenditures to otherwise improve their operating characteristics, such as fuel efficiency to enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Our fleet of 18 vessels as at December 31, 2014 had an average age weighted by TEU capacity of 10.7 years. 11 Table of Contents Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, at the end of the useful lives of our vessels our revenue will decline, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our fleet of 18 containerships as at December 31, 2014, had an average age weighted by TEU capacity of 10.7 years. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement we will be unable to replace the older vessels in our fleet. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our containerships. The inability to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any reserves set aside by any of our subsidiaries for vessel replacement will not be available for servicing our indebtedness. Our business depends upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with us. Our current performance and future success depend to a significant extent upon our Chief Executive Officer, Ian J. Webber, our Chief Financial Officer, Susan J. Cook, our Chief Commercial Officer, Thomas A. Lister and our Chief Technical Officer, Vivek Puri. Mr. Webber, Ms. Cook, Mr. Lister and Mr. Puri have over 100 years of cumulative experience in the shipping industry and have worked with several of the world’s largest shipping, ship leasing and ship management companies. They and members of the board of directors are crucial to the execution of our business strategies and to the growth and development of our business. If these individuals were no longer to be affiliated with us, or if we were to otherwise cease to receive advisory services from them, we may be unable to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, and our business and financial condition may suffer as a result. Rising crew and other vessel operating costs may adversely affect our profits. Acquiring and renewing long-term time charters with leading liner companies depends on a number of factors, including our ability to man our containerships with suitably experienced, high quality masters, officers and crews. In recent years, the limited supply of and increased demand for well-qualified crew, due to the increase in the size of the global shipping fleet, has created upward pressure on crewing costs, which we generally bear under our time charters. Increases in crew costs and other vessel operating costs such as insurance, repairs and maintenance, and lubricants may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, if we cannot retain a sufficient number of high quality onboard seafaring personnel, our fleet utilization will decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Increased fuel prices may have an adverse effect on our profits. The cost of fuel is a significant factor in negotiating charter rates and can affect us in both directly and indirectly. The cost of fuel will be borne by us if our containerships are being positioned between charters or are employed on voyage charters or contracts of affreightment. We currently have no voyage charters or contracts of affreightment, but we may enter into such arrangements in the future, and to the extent we do so, an increase in the price of fuel beyond our expectations may adversely affect our profitability. We also bear the cost of fuel associated with dry-dockings and when a vessel is off-hire. Even where the cost of fuel is borne by the charterer, which is the case with all of our existing time charters, that cost will affect the level of charter rates that charterers are prepared to pay, depending in part of the fuel efficiency of a particular vessel. The price of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including but not limited to geo-political developments, supply and demand for oil, actions by members of the OPEC and other oil and gas producers, economic or other sanctions levied against oil and gas producing countries, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns and regulations. 12 Table of Contents We are a holding company and we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to distribute funds to us in order to satisfy our financial and other obligations. We are a holding company and have no significant assets other than the equity interests in our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries own all of the vessels and payments under charters are made to them. As a result, our ability to pay dividends and meet any debt service obligations and other liabilities depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions or payments to us will be subject to the availability of profits or funds for such purpose which, in turn, will depend on the future performance of the subsidiary concerned which, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that may be beyond its control. Additionally, the ability of our subsidiaries to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by English, Marshall Islands, Cypriot or Hong Kong law or the laws of any jurisdiction which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. Applicable tax laws may also subject such payments to further taxation. Applicable law may also limit the amounts that some of our subsidiaries will be permitted to pay as dividends or distributions on their equity interests, or even prevent such payments. Limitations on our ability to transfer cash among and within our group may mean that even though we, in aggregate, may have sufficient resources to meet our obligations, we may not be permitted to make the necessary transfers from one entity in our group to another entity in our group in order to make payments on our obligations. Therefore, if we are unable to obtain funds from our subsidiaries, we may not be able to pay dividends, including on our preferred shares, or meet our debt service obligations or our other liabilities. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars and some of our expenses are denominated in currencies other than U.S. dollars. This currency mismatch could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies. Expenses incurred in foreign currencies against which the U.S. dollar falls in value could increase, thereby decreasing our net income. We have not hedged any of this exposure and our U.S. dollar denominated results of operations and financial condition and ability to pay dividends could suffer from adverse currency exchange rate movements. Future declines in the U.S. dollar versus other currencies could have a material effect on our operating expenses and net income. Our insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to our property or result from our operations. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks. Although we carry hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes coverage for environmental damage and pollution) and other insurances commonly used by vessel owners, we may not be adequately insured against all risks or our insurers may not pay every claim. Even if our insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a total or constructive total loss in a timely manner. Further, under our revolving credit facility and the indenture that governs our notes, we are subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds we may receive under claims in the event of a total or constructive total loss. Furthermore, in the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. We may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. In addition, insurers typically charge additional premiums if vessels transit certain “excluded areas” which may be subject to higher risk of piracy, war or terrorism. We cannot be certain that our insurers will continue to provide such cover, or that we will be able to recover these increased costs from our charterers. Our insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase our costs. In addition, we do not presently carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that might occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from a major accident. Accordingly, any vessel that is off-hire for an extended period of time, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents We cannot assure you if and when we will resume paying dividends on our common shares. We have not paid dividends on our common shares since March 2009. Subject to the limitations contained in our revolving credit facility, the indenture governing our notes and other contractual obligations, we may resume the distribution of a portion of our cash flow to our shareholders, while retaining the remaining cash flow for reinvestment in our business, to fund vessel or fleet acquisitions, make debt repayments and for other purposes, as determined by our board of directors. The timing and amount of any dividends declared will depend on, among other things (a) our earnings, financial condition, cash flow and cash requirements, (b) our liquidity, including our ability to obtain debt and equity financing on acceptable terms as contemplated by our vessel acquisition strategy, (c) restrictive covenants in our existing and future debt instruments and (d) provisions of Marshall Islands law. The declaration and payment of dividends is also subject at all times to the discretion of our board of directors. The international containership and containership leasing industry is highly volatile, and we cannot predict with certainty the amount of cash, if any, that will be available for distribution as dividends in any period. Also, there may be a high degree of variability from period to period in the amount of cash, if any, that is available for the payment of dividends. The amount of cash we generate from operations and the actual amount of cash we will have available for dividends will vary based upon, among other things: • the charter-hire payments we obtain from our charters as well as the rates obtained upon the expiration of our existing charters; • acquisition of additional vessels; • delays in the delivery of newbuilding vessels, if any, and the beginning of payments under charters relating to those vessels; • the level of our operating costs, such as the costs of crews, lubricants and insurance; • the number of unscheduled off-hire days for our fleet and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled dry-docking of our containerships; • any idle time after one charter expires and a new charter is agreed or the vessel is disposed of, should a new charter not be agreed; • unexpected repairs to, or required expenditures on, vessels or dry-docking costs in excess of those anticipated; • the loss of a vessel; • prevailing global and regional economic and political conditions; • changes in interest rates; • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; • changes in the basis of taxation of our activities in various jurisdictions; • modification or revocation of our dividend policy by our board of directors; and • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors. 14 Table of Contents The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by non-cash items. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. In addition, Marshall Islands law generally prohibits the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received from the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or if there is no surplus, from the net profits for the current and prior fiscal years, or while a company is insolvent or if it would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend. We may not have sufficient surplus or net profits in the future to pay dividends, and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient funds, surplus or net profits to make distributions to us. As a result of these and other factors, we may be able to pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record net income. We can give no assurance that dividends will be paid in the future. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Business Corporations Act of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the U.S. However, there have been very few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain U.S. jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a U.S. jurisdiction. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our growth and long term profitability depend mainly upon growth in demand for containerships, the condition of the charter market and the availability of capital. The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile. It experienced a severe cyclical downturn from mid-2008 through 2009, favorable conditions in 2010 and a further severe downturn in 2011 with over supply of capacity, although less acute, continuing to date. Container shipping is a cyclical industry, with the demand for container shipping services and therefor the demand for container ships, driven by global trade. Between 1997 and 2007 containerized trade exhibited compound annual growth of approximately 10.0%, with a period of super-cyclical growth from 2002 to mid-2008 fuelled partly by exports from China. The global financial crisis, from late 2008, contributed to a contraction of demand for the first time in the history of containerization, with 2009 volumes falling by 9%. In 2010 demand rebounded, with volume growth of almost 13%. During 2011, macroeconomic sentiment softened and containerized trade growth slowed to approximately 7.0%. In 2012, 2013 and 2014 containerized trade is estimated to have grown, year-on-year, by 3.0%, 4.9% and 6.0%, respectively. Weak conditions in the containership sector may affect our ability to generate cash flows and maintain liquidity, as well as adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and container shipping services are outside our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: • supply and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; • changes in the pattern of global production of products transported by containerships; • the globalization of manufacturing; 15 Table of Contents • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which container cargoes are transported, the size of containerships, the extent of trans-shipments and the competitiveness of other forms of marine transportation including dry bulk and refrigerated vessels; • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; • the price of oil and economics of slow steaming; • the availability of trade finance and currency exchange rates; and • port and canal congestion. The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: • the containership newbuilding orderbook; • the availability of financing; • the scrapping rate of older containerships; • the number of containerships off-hire or otherwise idle including laid-up; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • changes in environmental and other laws and regulations that may limit the useful life of containerships; • the availability of shipyard capacity; • port and canal congestion; and • the extent of slow steaming. Our ability to recharter our containerships upon the expiration or termination of their current charters, which for two vessels can be terminated on 30 days’ notice and will in any case expire no later than June 3, 2015 and July 17, 2015, and the charter rates receivable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the prevailing state of the containership charter market. If the charter market is depressed when our charters expire, we may be forced to recharter our containerships at reduced or even unprofitable rates, or we may not be able to recharter them at all, which may reduce or eliminate our earnings or make our earnings volatile. The same issues will exist in respect of any additional vessels we may acquire either when obtaining the initial charters or on rechartering at their expiry. Weak economic conditions throughout the world, particularly the Asia Pacific region and recent EU sovereign debt default fears, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Negative trends in the global economy emerged in 2008 and continued into 2009, and although there has been some improvement from 2010, the global economy remains fragile. The global economy is still subject to downside risks stemming from factors like fiscal fragility in advanced economies, highly accommodative macroeconomic policies and persistent difficulties in access to credit. In particular, recent concerns regarding the 16 Table of Contents possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, including Cyprus, Greece, Ireland and Portugal, have significantly weakened the Euro zone, disrupted financial markets throughout the world, and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the U.S., and other parts of the world. The deterioration in the global economy has caused, and may continue to cause, a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods shipped in containerized form. We anticipate that a significant number of port calls made by our containerships will continue to involve the loading or unloading of container cargoes in ports in the Asia Pacific region. In recent years, China has been one of the world’s fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. However, if China’s growth in gross domestic product declines and other countries in the Asia Pacific region experience slowed or negative economic growth in the future, then this may exacerbate the effect of the significant downturns in the economies of the U.S. and the European Union, and thus, may negatively impact container shipping demand. For example, the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries, including Cyprus, Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and the possibility of market reforms to float the Chinese Renminbi, either of which development could weaken the Euro against the Chinese Renminbi, could adversely affect consumer demand in the European Union. Such weak economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the U.S. and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The U.S. and other parts of the world, including the Euro zone, have exhibited very weak economic trends at times since 2008 and certain parts of the world continue to show weak economic conditions. The credit markets in the U.S. and elsewhere have, from time to time, experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government and state and other governments have implemented and are also considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been severely disrupted and volatile at times in recent years and remain subject to significant vulnerabilities, such as the deterioration of fiscal balances and the rapid accumulation of public debt, continued deleveraging in the banking sector and limited supply of credit. Credit markets and the debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed and volatile. The sovereign debt crisis in countries such as Cyprus and Greece, for example, and concerns over debt levels of certain other European Union member states and other countries around the world, as well as concerns about some international banks, has increased volatility in global credit and equity markets. These issues, along with the re-pricing of credit risk and the difficulties currently experienced by financial institutions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. As a result of the disruptions in the credit markets, many lenders have increased margins, enacted tighter lending standards, required more restrictive terms (including higher collateral ratios for advances, shorter maturities and smaller loan amounts), or refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to our current debt. Furthermore, certain banks that have historically been significant lenders to the shipping industry have announced an intention to reduce or cease lending activities in the shipping industry. New banking regulations, including larger capital requirements and the resulting policies adopted by lenders, could reduce lending activities. We may experience difficulties obtaining financing commitments in the future if current or future lenders are unwilling to extend financing to us or unable to meet their funding obligations due to their own liquidity, capital or solvency issues. We cannot be certain that financing will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our future obligations as they come due. Our failure to obtain such funds could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our cash flows, including cash available for dividends to our shareholders. In the absence of available financing, we also may be unable to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. 17 Table of Contents A decrease in the level of China’s export of goods or an increase in trade protectionism could have a material adverse impact on our charterer’s business and, in turn, could cause a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our containerships are deployed on routes involving containerized trade in and out of emerging markets, and our charterer’s container shipping and business revenue may be derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to various overseas export markets including the U.S. and Europe. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China’s exports and on our charterers’ business. For instance, the government of China has implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese made goods. This may have the effect of reducing the supply of goods available for export and may, in turn, result in a decrease of demand for container shipping. Additionally, though in China there is an increasing level of autonomy and a gradual shift in emphasis to a “market economy” and enterprise reform, many of the reforms, particularly some limited price reforms that result in the prices for certain commodities being principally determined by market forces, are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition. Furthermore, if China was to permit the Renminbi to float to a free market rate of exchange, it is widely anticipated that the Renminbi would appreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar. An increase in the value of the Renminbi may negatively impact the U.S.’ demand for imported goods, many of which are shipped in containerized form. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government. Our operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. If the incipient global recovery is undermined by downside risks and the recent economic downturn is prolonged, governments may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the markets that our charterer serves has caused and may continue to cause an increase in: (i) the cost of goods exported from China, (ii) the length of time required to deliver goods from China and (iii) the risks associated with exporting goods from China, as well as a decrease in the quantity of goods to be shipped. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade, especially trade with China, would have an adverse impact on our charterer’s business, operating results and financial condition and could thereby affect its ability to make timely charter hire payments to us and to renew and increase the number of its time charters with us. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur realized and unrealized losses and impairments in connection with declining containership values and/or in connection with vessel dispositions. Containership values can fluctuate substantially over time. Containership values have decreased significantly since late 2008 and have remained at depressed levels, generally below long term averages. A number of factors may contribute to a decrease in the market value of containerships, including: • unfavorable economic conditions; • a substantial or extended decline in world trade growth leading to reduced demand for container shipping services; • increases or an over-supply in containership capacity including from new vessels on order; • increased age; • prevailing charter rates; and 18 Table of Contents • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards or otherwise. If a charter terminates when the charter market for containerships is depressed, we may be unable to recharter the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, we may seek to dispose of it. It is likely that in such circumstances asset values will also be depressed. Inability to dispose of the containership at a reasonable price could result in a loss on the vessel’s sale and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Future fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values may trigger a possible impairment of our vessels as described in Item 5.A. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Results of Operations—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” We may have more difficulty entering into long-term charters if a more active and cheaper short-term or spot container shipping market develops. At the expiration of our charters or if a charter terminates early for any reason or if we acquire vessels charter-free, we will need to charter or recharter our vessels. If an excess of vessels is available on the spot or short-term market at the time we are seeking to fix new long-term charters, we may have difficulty entering into such charters at profitable rates and for any term other than short term and, as a result, our cash flow may be subject to instability in the long-term. In addition, it would be more difficult to fix relatively older vessels should there be an oversupply of younger vessels on the market. A more active short-term or spot market may require us to enter into spot or short-term charters based on prevailing market rates, as opposed to long-term contracts, which could result in a decrease in our cash flow in periods when charter rates are depressed. An over-supply of containership capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. While the size of the containership orderbook has declined over the last three years, the containership newbuilding orderbook as at December 31, 2014 represented approximately 18.4% of the total on the water fleet capacity. Further containerships are likely to be ordered. Delivery of newly built containerships will result in an increase in the size of the world containership fleet over the next few years. An over-supply of containership capacity, combined with any decline in the rate of growth in demand for containerships, would be likely to result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs when we seek to charter newbuilding vessels, our growth opportunities may be diminished. If such a reduction occurs upon the expiration or termination of our containerships’ current time charters, we may only be able to recharter our containerships for reduced rates or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to recharter our containerships at all. Increased competition in technology and innovation could reduce our charter hire income and the value of our vessels. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors, including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical life. Efficiency includes speed and fuel economy. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors, utilize related docking facilities and pass through canals and straits together with other vessel specifications such as the capacity to carry temperature controlled containers (reefers). Physical life is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new ship designs currently promoted by shipyards as being more fuel efficient perform, or if new containerships built in future that are more efficient or flexible or have longer physical lives than our vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect our ability to re-charter, the amount of charter-hire payments that we receive for our containerships once their current time charters expire and the resale value of our containerships. This could adversely affect our ability to service our debt or pay dividends to our stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Piracy is an inherent risk in the operation of ocean-going vessels and particularly affects vessels operating in specific regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Gulf of Aden, the Arabian Sea, off the coast of West Africa and especially off the coast of Somalia. In recent years, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the coasts of Somalia and West Africa. Generally, we do not control the routing of our vessels which is determined by the charterer. Pirate attacks on any of our vessels could result in loss of life, the kidnapping of crew or the theft, damage or destruction of vessels or of containers or cargo being transported thereon. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not “on-hire” for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, insurance premiums and costs such as onboard security guards, should we decide to employ them, could increase in such circumstances. Further, acts of piracy may materially adversely affect our charterer’s business, impairing its ability to make payments to us under our charters. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the U.S. on September 11, 2001, and in Mumbai on November 26, 2008 and the continuing response of the U.S. and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition from increased security costs and more rigorous inspection procedures at borders and ports. From time to time acts of terrorism, regional conflict and other armed conflict around the world, may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Terrorist attacks targeted at oceangoing vessels may also negatively affect our future operations and financial condition from, for example, increased insurance costs, and directly impact our containerships or our charterer. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased market volatility or even a recession in the U.S. or elsewhere or negatively affect global financial markets, and could further increase inspection and security requirements and regulation that could slow our operations and negatively affect our profitability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our operating results, revenue and costs. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. government, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. From time to time on charterers’ instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government and in countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. In addition, as a result of actions taken by our charterers, we may be deemed to have engaged in financial transactions that are prohibited by such sanctions or embargoes. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act (“CISADA”), which amended the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. Among other things, CISADA introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits U.S. persons from engaging in transactions or dealings with foreign individuals or entities that (1) have violated, attempted to violate, conspired to violate or caused a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or Syria, (2) facilitated any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions concerning Iran or Syria, or (3) are owned or controlled by, or are acting on behalf of, any such person or entity subject to sanctions. The Secretary of the Treasury may prohibit any transactions or dealings, including any U.S. capital markets financing, involving any person found to be evading foreign sanctions under Executive Order 13608. Also in 2012, the U.S. enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (the “ITRA”) which expanded the range of Iran-related activities that expose third parties to sanctions created new sanctions and 20 Table of Contents strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the ITRA intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran’s petroleum or petrochemical sector. The ITRA also includes a provision requiring the President of the U.S. to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person’s vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. The ITRA also includes a requirement that issuers of securities must disclose to the SEC in their annual and quarterly reports filed after February 6, 2013 if the issuer or “any affiliate” has “knowingly” engaged in certain sanctioned activities involving Iran during the timeframe covered by the report. Finally, in January 2013, the U.S. enacted the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 (the “IFCPA”) which expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions on any person that is part of Iran’s energy, shipping or shipbuilding sector and operators of ports in Iran, and imposes penalties on any person who facilitates or otherwise knowingly provides significant financial, material or other support to these entities. To the best of our knowledge, none of our vessels have called at ports in Iran, Syria, Sudan or Cuba since January 1, 2012, nor have we provided any services or products to Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba, or entered into any agreements, commercial arrangements or had any contact with the governments of, or entities controlled by the governments of, the aforementioned countries, during this time period. Additionally, to the best of our knowledge, we have not since January 1, 2012 directly provided any services or products to Iran, or entered into any agreements, commercial arrangements or had any contact with the government of, or entities controlled by the government of Iran. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. It may not be possible for some of our vessels to call on Turkish ports due to the Turkish embargo on Cypriot flag vessels and vessels owned by Cypriot companies. In 1987 the Turkish Government introduced certain restrictive measures against Cypriot flag vessels prohibiting such vessels to call on Turkish ports. In 1997 the restrictive measures were extended and since then they apply not only against Cypriot flag vessels but also against vessels registered under a foreign flag (of any nationality) sailing to Turkish ports directly from any Cypriot port under the effective control of the Republic of Cyprus or against vessels of any flag related to the Republic of Cyprus in terms of ownership or ship management. Cypriot vessels will be allowed passage through the Turkish Straits (Bosphorus) with or without pilot but no other services or provisions will be given, including bunker supply. Currently, 16 of our 19 vessels are owned by Cypriot companies and of these 11 are Cyprus flagged. Whilst the restrictive measures remain in place, our vessels which are either Cypriot flagged or owned by a Cypriot company may not call on Turkish ports. This may restrict the use of Cypriot ports by our charterers and may have an effect on the possible operation of our vessels by them in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea. The smuggling of drugs, weapons or other contraband and stowaways on our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. We expect that our vessels will call in areas where smugglers attempt to hide drugs, weapons and other contraband on vessels or stowaways attempt to board, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband or stowaways, whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew or charterers, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents We are exposed to significant risks in relation to compliance with anti-corruption laws and regulations. Our business entails numerous interactions with government authorities, including port authorities, health, safety, and environment authorities, labor and tax authorities and customs and immigration authorities. Furthermore, at our charterer’s direction, our vessels call at ports throughout the world, including in some countries where corruption is endemic. Although we have strict and adequate procedures prohibiting our employees or persons associated with us from making unlawful payments to government officials, we cannot guarantee that such payments may not be made despite our procedures and without our approval. In such case, such payments may be deemed to have violated anti-corruption laws potentially applicable to us, including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Both civil and criminal penalties may be imposed on us as a result of violations of anti-corruption laws, and such penalties could have a significant impact on our reputation, business and financial condition. Risks inherent in the operation of containerships could impair the ability of the charterer to make payments to us, increase our costs or reduce the value of our assets. Our containerships and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine accidents, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, environmental accidents and other circumstances or events. Any of these events connected to our vessels or other vessels under the charterer’s control, or any other factor which negatively affects the charterer’s business such as economic downturn and significant cyclical depression in the container shipping industry, could impair the ability of the charterer to make payments to us pursuant to our charters. Although the charterer is obligated to pay us charterhire regardless of the amount of cargo being carried on board, it is possible that generally low cargo volumes and low freight rates or events noted above may render the charterer financially unable to pay us its hire. Furthermore, there is a risk that a vessel may become damaged, lost or destroyed during normal operations and any such occurrence may cause us additional expenses to repair or substitute the vessel or may render us unable to provide the vessel for chartering, which will cause us to lose charter revenue. These occurrences could also result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to our reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase our costs or lower our revenues, which could result in reduction in the market price of our common shares. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation, which under most of our time charter agreements would permit the customer to terminate the charter agreement for that vessel. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although we would likely be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of our vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Additionally, under most of our time charter agreements, if a vessel is requisitioned, our customer has the option to terminate the charter agreement within 14 days of receipt of notice of the requisition. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels may negatively impact our revenues and cash flow. 22 Table of Contents Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and may adversely affect our business and operating results. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must conform to the rules and standards of a classification society approved by the vessel’s country of registry. Such societies set the rules and standards for the design, construction, classification, and surveys of vessels and conduct surveys to determine whether vessels are in compliance with such rules and standards. A certification by a society is an attestation that the vessel is in compliance with the society’s rules and standards. A vessel involved in international trade must also conform to national and international regulations on safety, environment and security, including (but not limited to) the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS, and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. A vessel conforms to such regulations by obtaining certificates from its country of registry and/or a classification society authorized by the country of registry. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special or class renewal survey, a vessel’s machinery may be reviewed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed over a five-year period. See Item 4.B. “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Inspection by Classification Societies” for more information regarding annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. Bureau Veritas, Lloyd’s Register and Germanischer Lloyd, the classification societies for the vessels in our fleet, may approve and carry out in-water inspections of the underwater parts of our vessels once every three to five years, in lieu of drydocking inspections. In-water inspections are typically less expensive than drydocking inspections and we intend to conduct in-water inspections when that option is available to us. If a vessel does not maintain its “in class” certification or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, port authorities may detain the vessel, refuse her entry into port or refuse to allow her to trade resulting in the vessel being unable to trade and therefore rendering her unemployable. In the event that a vessel becomes unemployable, we could also be in violation of provisions in our charters, insurance coverage, covenants in our loan agreements and ship registration requirements and our revenues and future profitability would be negatively affected. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect our cash flows and net income. The shipping industry and the operation of containerships are materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, we cannot predict the cost of complying with such requirements or the impact thereof on the value or useful life of our containerships. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and which may materially adversely affect our operations. We are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our operations. Many environmental requirements are designed to reduce the risk of pollution, such as oil spills, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. Environmental requirements can also affect the value or useful lives of vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of oil-based products or other hazardous materials from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our operations. We could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous materials associated with our existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, criminal liabilities or seizure or detention of our vessels. 23 Table of Contents In addition, significant compliance costs could be incurred due to existing environmental laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, which could require new maintenance and inspection procedures and new restrictions on air emissions from our containerships, the development of contingency arrangements for potential spills and/or obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become increasingly strict in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release of bunker fuel from one of our containerships, among other events, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information on these and other environmental requirements, you should review the information contained in Item 4.B. “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations.” Increased inspection procedures, tighter import and export controls and new security regulations could increase costs and cause disruption of our containership business. International container shipping is subject to security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin, destination, and certain trans-shipment points. These inspection procedures can result in cargo seizure, delays in the loading, offloading, trans-shipment, or delivery of containers, and the levying of customs duties, fines and other penalties against us. Since the events of September 11, 2001, U.S. authorities have substantially increased container inspections. Government investment in non-intrusive container scanning technology has grown and there is interest in electronic monitoring technology, including so-called “e-seals” and “smart” containers, which would enable remote, centralized monitoring of containers during shipment to identify tampering with or opening of the containers, along with potentially measuring other characteristics such as temperature, air pressure, motion, chemicals, biological agents and radiation. Also, as a response to the events of September 11, 2001, additional vessel security requirements have been imposed, including the installation of security alert and automatic identification systems on board vessels. It is unclear what additional changes, if any, to the existing inspection and security procedures may ultimately be proposed or implemented in the future, or how any such changes will affect the industry. It is possible that such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection and security procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of goods in containers uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. The operation of our vessels is also affected by the requirements set forth in the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (the “ISPS Code”). The ISPS Code requires vessels to develop and maintain a ship security plan that provides security measures to address potential threats to the security of ships or port facilities. Although each of our containerships is ISPS Code certified, any failure to comply with the ISPS Code or maintain such certifications may subject us to increased liability and may result in denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. Furthermore, compliance with the ISPS Code requires us to incur certain costs. Although such costs have not been material to date, if new or more stringent regulations relating to the ISPS Code are adopted by the IMO and the flag states, these requirements could require significant additional capital expenditures or otherwise increase the costs of our operations. Depending on the outcome of an ongoing European Union investigation of container liner companies related to potential antitrust violations, our growth, results of operations and our ability to charter our vessels may be reduced. The European Commission is conducting investigations of certain major container liner companies, including CMA CGM, related to potential violations of European Union competition (antitrust) rules. Although we have no basis for assessing the outcome of these investigations, it is possible that additional financial and legal obligations may be imposed on one or more of these liner companies. Such obligations may make CMA CGM or 24 Table of Contents similarly situated potential customers less likely to enter into or renew time charters for our containerships, which could reduce our growth opportunities and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, any significant financial penalties arising from these or similar investigations could reduce the ability of CMA CGM or future customers to make charter payments to us, which likewise could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and Depositary Shares Representing Series B Preferred Shares The price of our securities may be volatile. The price of our common shares and depositary shares representing Series B preferred shares may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of publicly held containership owners or operators; • market conditions in the industry; • perceived counterparty risk; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • announcements concerning us or other containership owners or operators; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • changes in government regulation including taxation; and • the general state of the securities markets. The international containership industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares and depositary shares representing Series B preferred shares in companies operating in this industry may be equally volatile. We have anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents that may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. Certain of these provisions provide for: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restrictions on business combinations with certain interested shareholders; • directors only to be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the common shares entitled to vote in the election of directors; • advance notice for nominations of directors by shareholders and for shareholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; and • a limited ability for shareholders to call special shareholder meetings. 25 Table of Contents These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. There will be a substantial number of our common shares available for sale in the future that may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common shares. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into at the effective time of the Merger, Marathon’s initial stockholders and, under certain circumstances, CMA CGM can demand that we register the resale of their holdings of our common shares at any time. 10,737,004 common shares held by Marathon’s initial stockholders were registered for sale under Form F-3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 28, 2014. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common shares. Our management is required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) as well as rules subsequently adopted by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, have imposed various requirements on public companies, including changes in corporate governance practices. Our directors, management and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to comply with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations relating to public companies will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. Sarbanes-Oxley requires, among other things, that we maintain and periodically evaluate our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 20-F a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a related attestation of our independent auditors. While we did not identify any material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls under the current assessment, we cannot be certain at this time that all our controls will be considered effective in future assessments. Therefore, we can give no assurances that our internal control over financial reporting will satisfy regulatory requirements in the future. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the NYSE rules, and as such we are entitled to exemption from certain NYSE corporate governance standards, and you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the U.S. and the rules of the NYSE. Under the securities laws of the U.S., “foreign private issuers” are subject to different disclosure requirements than U.S. domiciled registrants, as well as different financial reporting requirements. Under the NYSE rules, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of the NYSE permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of the NYSE. Accordingly, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. Subject to the rules of the NYSE, in the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock, and other equity securities of equal or senior rank, without stockholder approval, in a number of circumstances. The issuance by us of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: • our existing stockholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us may decrease; 26 Table of Contents • the dividend amount payable per share on our common stock may be lower; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding share may be diminished; and • the market price of our common stock may decline. Our stockholders also may elect to sell large numbers of shares held by them from time to time. The number of shares of common stock available for sale in the public market will be limited by restrictions applicable under securities laws, and agreements that we and our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders may enter into with the underwriters at the time of an offering. Subject to certain exceptions, these agreements generally restrict us and our executive officers, directors and existing stockholders from directly or indirectly offering, selling, pledging, hedging or otherwise disposing of our equity securities or any security that is convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for our equity securities and from engaging in certain other transactions relating to such securities for a period of 180 days after the date of an offering prospectus without the prior written consent of the underwriter(s). We may not have sufficient cash from our operations to enable us to pay dividends on or to redeem our Series B preferred shares, and accordingly the depositary shares, as the case may be, and our ability to pay dividends on or redeem our Series B preferred shares is limited by Marshall Islands law and our contractual obligations. We pay quarterly dividends on the Series B preferred shares, and accordingly the depositary shares, only from funds legally available for such purpose when, as and if declared by our board of directors. We may not have sufficient cash available each quarter to pay dividends. In addition, if our board of directors does not authorize and declare a dividend for any dividend period prior to the related dividend payment date, holders of the Series B preferred shares and accordingly the depositary shares would not be entitled to receive a dividend for that dividend period. However, any unpaid dividends will accumulate. In addition, we may have insufficient cash available to redeem the Series B preferred shares, and accordingly the depositary shares. The amount of cash we can use to pay dividends or redeem our Series B preferred shares and the depositary shares depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which may fluctuate significantly, and other factors, including the following: • changes in our operating cash flow, capital expenditure requirements, working capital requirements and other cash needs; • the amount of any cash reserves established by our board of directors; • restrictions under Marshall Islands law as described below; • restrictions under our credit facilities and other instruments and agreements governing our existing and future debt as described below; and • our overall financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the risks associated with the shipping industry and the other factors (see Item “Risks Related to our Business” above), many of which are beyond our control. The amount of cash we generate from our operations may differ materially from our net income or loss for the period, which will be affected by noncash items, and our board of directors in its discretion may elect not to declare any dividends. We may incur other expenses or liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the cash available for distribution as dividends. As a result of these and the other factors mentioned above, we may pay dividends during periods when we record losses and may not pay dividends during periods when we record net income. 27 Table of Contents Marshall Islands law provides that we may pay dividends on and redeem the Series B preferred shares only to the extent that assets are legally available for such purposes. Legally available assets generally are limited to our surplus, which essentially represents our retained earnings and the excess of consideration received by us for the sale of shares above the par value of the shares. In addition, under Marshall Islands law we may not pay dividends on or redeem Series B preferred shares if we are insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such a dividend or the making of such redemption. Further, the terms of our outstanding notes and our revolving credit facility prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on preferred stock, including the Series B preferred shares, or redeeming, purchasing, acquiring or making a liquidation payment on preferred stock in certain circumstances. Risks Related to Tax Matters Our operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which would reduce our cash flow. We do not expect to be engaged in a U.S. trade or business. In the case of a foreign corporation that is not so engaged, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), imposes a 4% U.S. federal income tax (without allowance of any deductions) on 50% of the corporation’s gross transportation income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the U.S., unless the corporation qualifies for the exemption provided in Section 883 of the Code. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the charter agreements, the charterer has agreed to provide reimbursement for any such taxes as the charterer determines where each vessel trades. We will qualify for the exemption under Section 883 if, among other things, our stock is treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the U.S. However, under the Treasury regulations, our stock will not be treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market if, during more than half the number of days during the taxable year, one or more shareholders who actually or constructively own at least 5% of our stock (“5% shareholders”), own, in the aggregate, 50% or more of our stock, unless a sufficient amount of our stock is owned by 5% shareholders that are considered to be “qualified shareholders” to preclude non-qualifying 5% shareholders from owning 50% or more of the total value of our stock held by the 5% shareholders group. Generally, a 5% shareholder is a qualified 5% shareholder only if the 5% shareholder is an individual who is a resident of a qualified foreign country, the government of a qualified foreign country, a foreign corporation organized in a qualified foreign country that meets the “publicly-traded” test discussed herein, a non-profit organization organized in a qualified foreign country or an individual beneficiary (resident in a qualified foreign country) of a pension plan administered in or by a qualified foreign country. Generally, a foreign country is a qualified foreign country if it grants an equivalent exemption from tax to corporations organized in the U.S. Based on information that we have as to our shareholders and other matters, we believe that we qualified for the Section 883 exemption for 2014, and expect to qualify for 2015. However, it is possible that our ownership may change such that qualified 5% shareholders will not own, in the aggregate, a sufficient amount of our stock for more than half the days during the taxable year to preclude the non-qualifying 5% shareholders from owning 50% or more of the total value of our stock held by the 5% shareholders group. Such an ownership change, and certain other requirements for our stock to be treated as primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market, will be outside of our control and, as a result, no assurances can be provided that our stock will be so treated for any year. Moreover, since the availability of the Section 883 exemption depends on other matters over which we have no control, we can give no assurances that we will, or will continue to, qualify for the Section 883 exemption. See Item 10.E. “Additional Information—Taxation —Taxation of Global Ship Lease—The Section 883 exemption” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax rules related to Section 883. 28 Table of Contents We could be taxed as a U.S. corporation. Section 7874 of the Code provides that a foreign corporation which acquires substantially all the properties of a U.S. corporation is generally treated as though it were a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, after the acquisition, at least 80% (by vote or value) of the stock of the foreign corporation is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of owning stock in the U.S. corporation. Although we believe that this rule should not apply to us in the context of the Merger, there is no definitive legal authority applying the principles of Section 7874 of the Code and therefore there can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) would not seek to challenge such position, or that such a challenge would not be successful. If we were to be treated as a U.S. corporation, our net income would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, with the highest statutory rate currently being 35%. The imposition of this tax would likely have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could arise for U.S. holders. Shareholders of a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, that are U.S. persons within the meaning of the Code, which we refer to as “U.S. shareholders,” are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive from a PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in a PFIC (as discussed below). In addition, dividends paid by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and, hence, are ineligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. A foreign corporation is treated as a PFIC if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) 50% or more of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business; income derived from the performance of services does not, however, constitute “passive income.” Based on the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, we do not expect that we will constitute a PFIC with respect to the current or any future taxable year, although there can be no assurance in this regard. Our expectation is based principally on the position that, for purposes of determining whether we are a PFIC, the majority, if not all, of the gross income we derive from our chartering activities should constitute services income rather than rental income. In this regard, we have been advised by our tax advisor that the income from our chartering activities is, more likely than not, services income. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our current and projected future operations or supporting our position. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert that we are a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, nor that a court would not uphold any such assertion and we have not obtained advice from our tax advisor on whether we are a PFIC. Further, in a case not concerning PFICs, Tidewater Inc. v. U.S., 2009-1 USTC ¶ 50,337, the Fifth Circuit held that a vessel time charter at issue generated rental, rather than services, income. However, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the IRS that the time charter income should be treated as services income. Subsequently, the IRS has stated that it disagrees with and will not acquiesce to the rental versus services distinction in the Tidewater decision, and in its discussion stated that the time charters at issue in Tidewater would be treated as producing services income for PFIC purposes. The IRS’s statement with respect to Tidewater cannot be relied upon or otherwise cited as precedent by taxpayers. Further, the facts in Tidewater are not directly analogous to our facts. No assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law would accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that the company is a PFIC. 29 Table of Contents If the IRS were to determine that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Distributions paid by us with respect to our shares will not constitute qualified dividend income if we were a PFIC in the year we pay a dividend or in the prior taxable year and, hence, will not be eligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. In addition, our U.S. shareholders (other than shareholders who have made a “qualified electing fund” or “mark-to-market” election) will be subject to special rules relating to the taxation of “excess distributions”—with excess distributions being defined to include certain distributions we may make on our Class A common shares as well as gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a disposition of our Class A common shares. In general, the amount of any “excess distribution” will be allocated ratably to each day of the U.S. holder’s holding period for our Class A common shares. The amount allocated to the current year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year for which we were a PFIC will be included in the U.S. holder’s gross income for the current year as ordinary income. With respect to amounts allocated to prior years for which we were a PFIC, the tax imposed for the current year will be increased by the “deferred tax amount,” which is an amount calculated with respect to each prior year by multiplying the amount allocated to such year by the highest rate of tax in effect for such year, together with an interest charge as though the amounts of tax were overdue. See Item 10.E. “Additional Information—Taxation —Tax Consequences of Holding Class A Common Shares—Consequences of possible passive foreign investment company classification” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we were treated as a PFIC (including those applicable to U.S. shareholders who make a qualified electing fund or mark-to-market election). We may be subject to taxation on all or part of our income in the United Kingdom, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we or our vessel owning subsidiaries were considered to be a resident of the United Kingdom or to have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, all or a part of our profits could be subject to UK corporate tax, which had a maximum rate of 26% for the year ended March 31, 2012, 24% for the year ended March 31, 2013, 23% for the year ending March 31, 2014 and 21% for the year ended March 31, 2015 and 20% thereafter. We and our vessel owning subsidiaries are strategically managed and controlled from outside the United Kingdom and have restricted activities within the United Kingdom. Certain intra-group services are provided from within the United Kingdom and UK corporate tax will be payable on the arms-length price for those services. The appropriate arms-length price in these circumstances is likely to be a matter of negotiation with the UK taxing authorities. We do not believe that we or our vessel owning subsidiaries are residents of the United Kingdom, or that we or our vessel owning subsidiaries have permanent establishments in the United Kingdom. However, because some administrative and executive services are provided to us or our vessel owning subsidiaries by a subsidiary company located in the United Kingdom and certain of our directors reside in the United Kingdom, and because UK statutory and case law fail to definitively identify the activities that constitute a trade being carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the UK taxing authorities may contend that we or our vessel owning subsidiaries are subject to UK corporate tax on all of our income, or on a greater portion of our income than we currently expect to be taxed. If the UK taxing authorities made such a contention, we could incur substantial legal costs defending our position, and, if we were unsuccessful in our defense, our results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We may be subject to taxes which will reduce our cash flow. We and our vessel owning subsidiaries are subject to tax in certain jurisdictions in which we are organized, own assets or have operations, which reduces the amount of our cash available for distribution. In computing our tax obligations in these jurisdictions, we are required to take various tax accounting and reporting positions on matters that are not entirely free from doubt and for which we have not received rulings from the governing authorities. We cannot assure you that upon review of these positions, the applicable authorities will agree with our positions. A successful challenge by a tax authority, or a change in law in a jurisdiction in which we operate (including Cyprus and Hong Kong, where a number of our vessel owning subsidiaries are entered in the local tonnage tax regime), could result in additional tax imposed on us, further reducing the cash available for distribution. 30 Table of Contents 