D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Global Ship Lease is highly dependent on charter payments from CMA CGM. All of Global Ship Lease’s vessels in its fleet are chartered to its initial Charterer, CMA CGM. The initial Charterer’s payments to Global Ship Lease under the charters are currently its sole source of revenue. Global Ship Lease is highly dependent on the performance by the initial Charterer of its obligation under the charters. The container shipping industry has suffered a significant cyclical downturn with a substantial amount of excess ship capacity and many container shipping companies, including CMA CGM, have reported substantial losses in 2009. Further, CMA CGM announced in September 2009 that CMA CGM and its lenders are exploring a potential financial restructuring to address its short and medium term financing requirements and that CMA CGM is seeking to reduce and in some cases cancel certain ship deliveries. Global Ship Lease is not involved in these discussions and it is not possible to predict the outcome of these discussions. In addition, Global Ship Lease has experienced delays in receiving charterhire payments from the initial Charterer, where between one and three instalments have been outstanding, which under the charter contracts are due to be paid every 15 days in advance. If the initial Charterer ceases doing business or fails to perform its obligations under Global Ship Lease’s charters, Global Ship Lease’s business, financial position and results of operations would be materially adversely affected as it is probable that, even if the company was able to find replacement charters, such replacement charters would be at significantly lower daily rates and shorter durations. If such events occur, there would be significant uncertainty about Global Ship Lease’s ability to continue as a going concern. 5 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease’s credit facility contains restrictive covenants including a maximum leverage ratio based on borrowings under the credit facility expressed as a percentage of charter-free market value of its secured vessels. As a result of an amendment to the credit facility effective as of August 20, 2009 (the “Credit Facility Amendment”), regular testing of the leverage ratio covenant has been suspended effectively until April 30, 2011 and prepayment of outstanding borrowings commencing November 30, 2009 is required. If the leverage ratio tested as of April 30, 2011, or earlier in certain circumstances set forth in the credit facility, exceeds the permitted level, or if the company fails to meet the minimum scheduled prepayments, the lenders under the credit facility may require the company to make a prepayment of the borrowings or provide additional security, which would likely cause a default under the credit facility and which would raise substantial doubt about the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Global Ship Lease entered into its current credit facility with Fortis Bank (Nederland) N.V. (the “Agent”), Citibank Global Markets Limited, HSH Nordbank AG, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, Brussels Branch, KFW, DnB Nor Bank ASA and Bank of Scotland in order to acquire its current fleet, additional vessels and fund working capital, among other things. As of December 31, 2008, outstanding borrowings under the credit facility were $542.1 million. Subsequently, the company borrowed an additional $57.0 million under the credit facility to partially finance the purchase of the CMA CGM Berlioz. The credit facility contains restrictive covenants including minimum cash, minimum net worth, minimum EBITDA to debt service, maximum net debt to total capital and maximum leverage ratio, which is the ratio of borrowings under credit facility to the charter-free market value of security posted. If Global Ship Lease exceeds the maximum permitted leverage ratio of 75%, the Agent may require a prepayment of borrowings or the delivery of additional security to the extent necessary to reduce the leverage ratio to 75%. Due to the global economic downturn and significantly reduced demand for container shipping services and containerships, combined with continued delivery of newbuildings, containership values have experienced dramatic declines since mid 2008. Purchase and sale transactions in the containership market have been very limited, confined primarily to small vessels and, in instances where such transactions have been completed, the prices have been significantly lower than comparable transactions in the past. No newbuilding orders have been placed for many months and many ship brokers have not been providing certificates of market value due to the disrupted market. Due to the possibility that Global Ship Lease could exceed the maximum permitted leverage ratio under the credit facility as a result of the declines in charter-free market values of its vessels, Global Ship Lease’s lenders agreed to enter into the Credit Facility Amendment. Under the Credit Facility Amendment, the maximum 75% leverage ratio will not apply until the leverage ratio is first tested after the expiration of the waiver period which is up to and including November 30, 2010. Consequently the first such test is scheduled to be as of April 30, 2011. In addition, and in connection with the purchase of the CMA CGM Berlioz for $82.0 million, which was completed in August 2009, the Credit Facility Amendment permitted drawings of up to $42.0 million under the main credit facility and up to an additional $20.0 million as a newly created Over Advance Portion. In August, $42 .0 million was drawn under the main credit facility and $15.0 million was drawn under the Over Advance Portion. The $25.0 million balance of the purchase price was met from available cash. The Credit Facility Amendment provides that borrowings under the Over Advance Portion will be paid quarterly commencing November 2009 with free cash in excess of $20.0 million determined as of the previous month end. The Over Advance Portion is required to be fully prepaid by June 30, 2010. The credit facility will be repaid quarterly commencing June 30, 2010 with free cash in excess of $20.0 million determined as of the previous month end, subject to a minimum $40.0 million prepayment per rolling four-quarters as long as the leverage ratio is, or is deemed to be, over 75%. When the leverage ratio becomes 75% or less, scheduled repayments will be set at $10.0 million per quarter. If the leverage ratio at the next test date scheduled for April 30, 2011 exceeds 75% or if the company fails to meet its scheduled prepayments under the credit facility or is otherwise in potential default under the credit facility, and if a further amendment to or waiver under the credit facility or other relief is not obtained, the Agent may require a prepayment of borrowings or the delivery of additional security. In such an event, Global Ship Lease is likely to go into default under the credit facility, which would raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The credit facility also imposes additional operating and financial restrictions on Global Ship Lease. These restrictions may limit its ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness in the vessel owning subsidiaries, including through the issuance of guarantees; • change the management of its vessels without the prior consent of the lender; • permit liens on its assets; • sell its vessels or change the ownership of its subsidiaries; • merge or consolidate with, or transfer all or substantially all its assets to, another person; and • enter into certain types of charters. 6 Table of Contents Therefore, Global Ship Lease may need to seek consent from its lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Its lenders’ interests may be different from Global Ship Lease’s and it cannot guarantee that it will be able to obtain its lenders’ consent when needed. This may limit its ability to pay dividends, finance its future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. Please see Item 4B “Business Overview—Global Ship Lease Credit Facility” for more information. The Credit Facility Amendment provides that Global Ship Lease may not declare or pay common dividends before November 30, 2010 or until the leverage ratio is no more than 75%, whichever is later. The Credit Facility Amendment provides that Global Ship Lease may not declare or pay common dividends before November 30, 2010 or until the leverage ratio is no more than 75%, whichever is later. As a result, Global Ship Lease has suspended its previous policy of paying dividends to common shareholders. Additionally, Global Ship Lease’s credit facility provides that it may not pay dividends if there is a continuing default under the facility. Global Ship Lease is also prohibited from paying dividends if the payment of the dividend would result in a default and any payments to be made into the retention account are not fully up to date. The charter-free market value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels can fluctuate substantially depending on market supply and demand for vessels. Since mid 2008, due to an excess of containership capacity as described above, vessel values have fallen significantly. In addition, it is probable that the market value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels will decrease over time, as vessels generally decrease in value as they age. Consequently, the leverage ratio is volatile and will likely increase over time, which will negatively affect Global Ship Lease’s ability to comply with its leverage ratio covenants. This, in turn, will impact Global Ship Lease’s ability to resume dividend payments in the future. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will be able to refinance any indebtedness incurred under its credit facility. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that at the credit facility’s final maturity date in August 2016 or when otherwise required, it will be able to refinance its indebtedness on terms that are acceptable to Global Ship Lease or at all. The actual or perceived credit quality of its charterers, any defaults by them, and the market value of its fleet, among other things, may materially affect its ability to obtain new or replacement debt financing. If Global Ship Lease is not able to refinance its indebtedness, it will have to dedicate cash flow from operations not already committed to prepay borrowings to pay the principal and interest of its indebtedness. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that it will be able to generate cash flow in amounts that are sufficient for these purposes. If Global Ship Lease is not able to satisfy its debt service obligations with its cash flow from operations, Global Ship Lease may have to sell some or all of its assets, which may not be possible and which would have an adverse effect on its cash flows and results of operations. If Global Ship Lease is unable to meet its debt obligations for any reason, its lenders could declare its debt, together with accrued interest and fees, to be immediately due and payable and foreclose on vessels in its fleet. Under the Credit Facility Amendment, all undrawn commitments of approximately $200.0 million was cancelled and consequently Global Ship Lease does not have any capacity under the credit facility to pay for any further vessel acquisitions, including the two 4,250 TEU newbuildings scheduled to be delivered in the fourth quarter of 2010. If Global Ship Lease is unable to secure sufficient financing, it will not be able to meet its obligations under the purchase contracts and Global Ship Lease may be exposed to legal action by the sellers for damages. On September 11, 2008, Global Ship Lease entered into contracts to purchase from German interests two 4,250 TEU containerships for a price of approximately $77.4 million each. The vessels are expected to be delivered in December 2010 and are to be chartered to Zim Integrated Shipping Services Limited (“Zim”) for seven to eight years. A deposit of 10% was paid when the purchase contracts were signed and the balance of 90%, or approximately $139.3 million, is due upon delivery. As a result of the Credit Facility Amendment, Global Ship Lease has no capacity to borrow any further amounts under the credit facility to fund the remainder of the purchase price of the two newbuildings, and as such, must secure other sources of financing to meet its obligations to the sellers under the contracts. Global Ship Lease’s obligations under the purchase contracts are not conditioned on either the availability of financing or on the performance of the charters. Although the purchase contracts contain a clause to limit liability in the event of buyer default to the forfeiture of the previously paid deposit, this limitation on liability may not be effective. Unless Global Ship Lease can secure additional financing or an amendment to the purchase contracts, Global Ship Lease may be exposed to legal action by the sellers for damages which may exceed the deposit already paid. In addition, Global Ship Lease may suffer impairment loss on any part of the deposit which has been paid and which might not be recoverable. The status of Global Ship Lease’s agreements to charter the two 4,250 TEU newbuildings is uncertain due to the financial restructuring of Zim. Global Ship Lease has an agreement with Zim to charter the two 4,250 TEU newbuildings upon their delivery for a term of seven to eight years at a net rate of $28,000 per vessel per day. In November 2009 Zim announced a financial restructuring in order to reduce its cashflow burden, including obtaining a reduction in charter payments under certain long-term charter agreements. Although Global Ship Lease has not agreed to any reduction in charterhire, Zim could unilaterally fail to perform under the charters when the charters are due to go into effect, such that Global Ship Lease could become the owner of the vessels with no effective charters in place. 7 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager and CMA CGM, its initial Charterer, are privately held companies and there is little or no publicly available information about them. CMA CGM is Global Ship Lease’s sole Charterer and its wholly owned subsidiary, CMA Ships, is Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager. CMA CGM’s ability to continue to pay charterhire and CMA Ships’ ability to render ship management services will depend in part on their own financial strength. CMA CGM has guaranteed the performance of CMA Ships under the ship management agreements. As described above, the container shipping sector has suffered a severe cyclical downturn and has been incurring substantial losses. Furthermore, many containership operators, including CMA CGM, have commitments to purchase newbuildings for delivery over the next three to four years which may not be fully funded with committed financing. Circumstances beyond their control could impair CMA CGM’s and CMA Ships’ financial strength, and because they are privately held companies, information about their financial strength is not publicly available. As a result, Global Ship Lease and an investor in its securities might have little advance warning of financial or other problems affecting CMA CGM or their wholly owned subsidiaries even though their financial or other problems could have a material adverse effect on Global Ship Lease. CMA CGM and Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager have conflicts of interest with Global Ship Lease and limited contractual duties, which may make them favor their own interests to Global Ship Lease’s detriment. Conflicts of interest may arise between Global Ship Lease, on the one hand, and CMA CGM, Global Ship Lease’s initial Charterer, and CMA Ships, its Ship Manager, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager may favor its own or its parent company’s interests over Global Ship Lease’s interests. These conflicts may have unfavorable consequences for Global Ship Lease. For example, Global Ship Lease’s Ship Manager could be encouraged to incur unnecessary costs, for which it would seek reimbursement from Global Ship Lease. Although Global Ship Lease’s ship management agreements expressly prohibit its Ship Manager from giving preferential treatment when performing any of its ship management services to any other vessel that is affiliated with it, or otherwise controlled by CMA CGM, conflicts of interest may arise between Global Ship Lease, and its Ship Manager and its initial Charterer. Global Ship Lease’s financial reporting is dependent on CMA CGM. Under the ship management agreement with CMA Ships, the Ship Manager is obligated to provide Global Ship Lease with requisite financial information on a timely basis so that Global Ship Lease can meet its own reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. CMA Ships and its parent company CMA CGM are privately held French corporations with financial reporting schedules different from Global Ship Lease. If CMA Ships or any of its affiliates is delayed in providing Global Ship Lease with key financial information, Global Ship Lease could fail to meet its financial reporting deadlines. CMA CGM could compete with Global Ship Lease. Along with many other vessel-owning companies, CMA CGM, currently Global Ship Lease’s sole Charterer and largest holder of its common shares, could compete with Global Ship Lease in its search to purchase newbuildings and secondhand vessels. Further, CMA CGM is not precluded from acting as an owner in the direct chartering market. While Global Ship Lease understands that CMA CGM currently has no intention of doing so, competition from CMA CGM may potentially harm Global Ship Lease’s ability to grow the business and may decrease its results of operations. Certain terms in Global Ship Lease’s agreements with CMA CGM and its affiliates may be the result of negotiations that were not conducted at arms-length and may not reflect market standard terms. In addition, they may include terms that may not be obtained from future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties. The asset purchase agreement, the charters, the ship management agreements and the other contractual agreements Global Ship Lease entered into with CMA CGM and its wholly owned subsidiaries were made in the context of an affiliated relationship and were negotiated in the overall context of the previously contemplated public offering of its Class A common shares in 2007, the Merger in August 2008 and other related transactions. Global Ship Lease’s agreements with CMA CGM may include terms that could not have been obtained from arms-length negotiations with unaffiliated third parties for similar services and assets. As a result, its future operating results may be negatively affected if Global Ship Lease does not receive terms as favorable in future negotiations with unaffiliated third parties or has to enter into lengthy and costly negotiations with third parties in connection with entering into such agreements. Global Ship Lease’s growth depends on its ability to purchase further vessels, obtain new charters and maintain and potentially expand its relationship with CMA CGM. Global Ship Lease will require additional financing to be able to grow and will face substantial competition. One of Global Ship Lease’s objectives is to grow by acquiring additional vessels and chartering them out to container shipping companies including potentially CMA CGM. This will be particularly challenging since Global Ship Lease will need to obtain additional financing in order to acquire vessels. Due to the global banking crisis and the severe cyclical downturn in the containership industry, financing for investment in containerships, whether newbuildings or existing vessels, is severely limited. Further, demand for new long-term or medium-term charters of containerships has significantly reduced due to the current excess of capacity. 8 Table of Contents The process of obtaining new charterers is highly competitive and often takes several months. Charters are awarded based upon a variety of factors relating to the vessel owner, including: • competitiveness of overall price; • the availability of committed financing; • containership experience and quality of ship operations (including cost effectiveness); • shipping industry relationships and reputation for reliability, customer service and safety; • quality and experience of seafaring crew; • the ability to finance containerships at competitive rates and financial stability generally; • relationships with shipyards and the ability to get suitable berths for newbuildings; and • construction management experience, including the ability to obtain on-time delivery of new vessels according to customer specifications. Global Ship Lease will face substantial competition in expanding its business, including with respect to obtaining new containership charters, from a number of experienced companies. Many of these competitors may have greater financial resources than Global Ship Lease, and may also operate larger fleets and may be able to offer better charter rates. Due to the industry downturn, there are an increasing number of vessels available for charter, including many from owners with strong reputations and experience. The lack of available financing and excess supply of vessels in the container shipping market results in a more active short-term charter market and greater price competition for charters. As a result of these factors, Global Ship Lease may be unable to purchase additional containerships, expand its relationships with CMA CGM or to obtain new charterers on a profitable basis, if at all, which would have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Ship Lease may be unable to make or realize expected benefits from vessel acquisitions, and implementing its growth strategy through acquisitions may harm its business, financial condition and operating results. Global Ship Lease’s growth strategy includes, among other things, selectively acquiring newbuildings and secondhand vessels. Growing any business through acquisition presents numerous risks, such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, the possibility that indemnification agreements will be unenforceable or insufficient to cover potential losses and obtaining the necessary resources to manage an enlarged business. Global Ship Lease cannot give any assurance that it will be successful in executing its growth plans, that Global Ship Lease will be able to employ any acquired vessels under long-term charters or have ship management agreements with similar or better terms than those Global Ship Lease has obtained from its Ship Manager or that it will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection with its future growth. Factors that may limit Global Ship Lease’s ability to acquire additional vessels include availability of financing, shipyard capacity for newbuildings, the relatively small number of independent fleet owners and the limited number of modern vessels with appropriate characteristics not subject to existing long-term or other charters. Competition from other purchasers could reduce Global Ship Lease’s acquisition opportunities or cause Global Ship Lease to pay higher prices. Any acquisition of a vessel may not be profitable to Global Ship Lease and may not generate cash flow sufficient to justify Global Ship Lease’s investment. In addition, Global Ship Lease’s acquisition growth strategy exposes Global Ship Lease to risks that may harm its business, financial condition and operating results, including risks that Global Ship Lease may: • fail to obtain financing, ship management agreements and charters on acceptable terms; • be unable, including through its ship managers, to hire, train or retain qualified shore and seafaring personnel to manage and operate its growing business and fleet; • fail to realize anticipated benefits of cost savings or cash flow enhancements; • decrease its liquidity by using a significant portion of its available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; • significantly increase its interest expense or financial leverage if Global Ship Lease incurs additional debt to finance acquisitions; • incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the vessels acquired; or • not be able to pay dividends. Unlike newbuildings, secondhand vessels typically do not carry warranties as to their condition at the time of acquisition. While Global Ship Lease would generally inspect existing containerships prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide Global Ship Lease with as much knowledge of a containership’s condition as if it had been built for Global Ship Lease and operated 9 Table of Contents by Global Ship Lease during its life. Future repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be substantially higher than for equivalent vessels of which Global Ship Lease has had direct experience. These additional costs could decrease Global Ship Lease’s cash flow and reduce its liquidity. Global Ship Lease’s business depends upon certain individuals who may not necessarily continue to be affiliated with Global Ship Lease. Global Ship Lease’s current performance and future success depends to a significant extent upon its Chief Executive Officer, Ian J. Webber, its Chief Financial Officer, Susan J. Cook, its Chief Commercial Officer, Thomas A. Lister and its Chief Technical Officer, Vivek Puri. Mr. Webber, Ms. Cook, Mr. Lister and Mr. Puri have an aggregate of over 80 years of experience in the shipping industry and have worked with several of the world’s largest shipping companies. They and members of the board of directors are crucial to the execution of the company’s business strategies and to the growth and development of its business. If these individuals were no longer to be affiliated with Global Ship Lease, or if Global Ship Lease were to otherwise cease to receive advisory services from them, Global Ship Lease may be unable to recruit other employees with equivalent talent and experience, and its business and financial condition may suffer as a result. Global Ship Lease is a recently formed company with a limited separate operating history and its historical financial and operating data are not representative of its future results. Global Ship Lease is a recently formed company with limited operating history. The historical combined financial statements included in this Annual Report include, mainly as comparatives, its Predecessor Group’s historical business activities as a container shipping company earning revenue from transporting shippers’ cargo and incurring both vessel and voyage expenses, including fuel costs and all costs related to handling of containers for its vessels while the vessels were owned and operated by CMA CGM until the date of the individual transfer of each of 10 vessels in December 2007 and two further vessels in January 2008. These historical combined financial statements reflect the results of Global Ship Lease under its fixed-rate long-term charters, ship management agreements and its financing arrangements only from the date of the individual transfer to it of each vessel in December 2007, January 2008, December 2008 and August 2009. Further, Global Ship Lease’s capital and legal structure changed significantly as a result of the Merger in August 2008, including it becoming listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Consequently, historical financial information is not a meaningful representation of its future results of operations. Global Ship Lease has not performed and does not intend to perform underwater inspections of its vessels. Although Global Ship Lease performed physical inspections of the vessels, Global Ship Lease has not performed and does not intend to perform any underwater inspections either prior to or after their purchase. As a result, Global Ship Lease will not be aware of any damage to a vessel that may exist at the time of delivery and which could only be discovered through an underwater inspection. Global Ship Lease purchased the vessels and newbuildings from CMA CGM on an “as is” basis, subject to CMA CGM being responsible for any class condition or recommendation that existed at the date of delivery of the vessels. However, if any damage is subsequently found, Global Ship Lease could incur substantial costs to repair the damage which would not be recoverable from the sellers. Global Ship Lease is a holding company and it depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to distribute funds to Global Ship Lease in order to satisfy its financial and other obligations. Global Ship Lease is a holding company and has no significant assets other than the equity interests in its subsidiaries. Global Ship Lease’s subsidiaries own all of its vessels and payments under charters are made to the subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to pay dividends depends on the performance of its subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to it. The ability of its subsidiaries to make these distributions could be affected by a claim or other action by a third party, including a creditor, or by Marshall Islands law or the laws of any jurisdiction which regulates the payment of dividends by companies. If Global Ship Lease is unable to obtain funds from its subsidiaries, Global Ship Lease may not be able to meet its own liabilities or pay dividends, including on its preferred shares. As its fleet ages, Global Ship Lease may incur increased operating costs, which would adversely affect its earnings. In general, the day-to-day cost of operating and maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with age. In addition, older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and would attract lower charter rates compared to modern more fuel efficient vessels. Governmental regulations and safety or other equipment standards may also require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to its vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which its vessels may engage. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you that, as its vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or expenditures to otherwise improve fuel efficiency to enable it to operate its vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. 10 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease’s insurance may be insufficient to cover losses that may occur to its property or result from its operations. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks. Although Global Ship Lease carries hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance), Global Ship Lease may not be adequately insured against all risks or its insurers may not pay every claim. Even if its insurance coverage is adequate to cover its losses, Global Ship Lease may not be able to obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a total or constructive total loss in a timely manner. Further, under the terms of its credit facility, Global Ship Lease is subject to restrictions on the use of any proceeds Global Ship Lease may receive from claims in the event of a total or constructive total loss under its insurance policies. Furthermore, in the future, Global Ship Lease may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for its fleet. Global Ship Lease may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which Global Ship Lease receives indemnity insurance coverage for tort liability. In addition, insurers typically charge additional premiums if vessels transit certain “excluded areas” which may be subject to higher risk of piracy, war or terrorism. Global Ship Lease cannot be certain that its insurers will continue to provide such cover, or that it will be able to pass these increased costs to its charterers. Its insurance policies also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although Global Ship Lease believes are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase its costs. In addition, Global Ship Lease does not presently carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as those that might occur during an unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from an accident. Accordingly, any vessel that is off-hire for an extended period of time, due to an accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Ship Lease is incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Global Ship Lease’s corporate affairs are governed by its articles of incorporation and bylaws and by the Business Corporations Act of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, Global Ship Lease’s shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. Because Global Ship Lease is organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, it may be difficult to serve Global Ship Lease with legal process or enforce judgments against it, its directors or its management. Global Ship Lease is organized under the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and substantially all of its assets are located outside of the United States. Its principal executive offices are located outside the United States and most of its directors and officers reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against Global Ship Lease or against its directors or its management in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the Republic of the Marshall Islands and of other jurisdictions may prevent or restrict you from enforcing a judgment against Global Ship Lease’s assets or its directors and officers. Global Ship Lease cannot assure you if and when Global Ship Lease will resume paying dividends. As a result of the Credit Facility Amendment, the credit facility prohibits the declaration or payment of any common dividend until the later of November 30, 2010 or when the leverage ratio is no more than 75%. The declaration and payment of dividends is also subject at all times to the discretion of Global Ship Lease’s board of directors. When permitted by the credit facility and other contractual obligations, Global Ship Lease may resume the distribution of a portion of its cash flow to its shareholders, while retaining the remaining cash flow for reinvestment in its business, to fund vessel or fleet acquisitions, make debt repayments and for other purposes, as determined by Global Ship Lease’s management and board of directors. There can be no assurance that its actual results will be as anticipated, that its board of directors will not increase the level of cash reserves or otherwise change its dividend policy or that Global Ship Lease will not have additional cash expenses or liabilities, including extraordinary expenses. In addition to restrictions imposed by the credit facility, the timing and amount of future dividends, if any, could also be affected by various factors, including: • Global Ship Lease’s earnings, financial condition and anticipated cash requirements; • unexpected repairs to, or required expenditures on, vessels or drydocking costs in excess of those anticipated; • additional acquisitions of vessels; • the loss of a vessel; and • the provisions under Marshall Islands law affecting distributions to shareholders, which generally prohibit the payment of dividends other than from surplus (retained earnings and the excess of consideration received from the sale of shares above the par value of the shares) or while a company is insolvent or would be rendered insolvent by the payment of such dividend. 11 Table of Contents Global Ship Lease has anti-takeover provisions in its organizational documents that may discourage a change of control. Certain provisions of Global Ship Lease’s articles of incorporation and bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a tender offer or takeover attempt that a shareholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by shareholders. Certain of these provisions provide for: • a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; • restrictions on business combinations with certain interested shareholders; • directors only to be removed for cause and only with the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the common shares entitled to vote in the election of directors; • advance notice for nominations of directors by shareholders and for shareholders to include matters to be considered at annual meetings; and • a limited ability for shareholders to call special shareholder meetings. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire Global Ship Lease, even if the third party’s offer may be considered beneficial by many shareholders. As a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. The price of Global Ship Lease’s securities may be volatile. The price of Global Ship Lease’s common shares, units and warrants may be volatile, and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in quarterly and annual results; • market conditions in the industry; • perceived counterparty risk; • fluctuations in Global Ship Lease’s quarterly revenues and earnings and those of publicly held containership owners or operators; • shortfalls in Global Ship Lease’s operating results from levels forecasted by securities analysts; • announcements concerning Global Ship Lease or other containership owners or operators; • limited operating history; • mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; • changes in government regulation; and • the general state of the securities markets. The international containership industry has been highly unpredictable and volatile. The market for common shares in companies operating in this industry may be equally volatile. There will be a substantial number of Global Ship Lease’s common shares available for sale in the future that may adversely affect the market price of Global Ship Lease’s Class A common shares. The common shares (not including the common shares underlying the sponsors warrants nor the common shares purchased by Mr. Gross and CMA CGM on the closing date of the Merger pursuant to assignment and acceptance agreements with Marathon) issued in the Merger to Marathon’s initial stockholders and CMA CGM were subject to transfer restrictions set forth in the stockholders agreement. Generally, such shares could not be sold for one year from the date of the Merger. Furthermore, in connection with the Credit Facility Amendment, CMA CGM has agreed not to reduce its holding of common shares below the present level of approximately 24.4 million Class A and B common shares before November 30, 2010. Pursuant to the registration rights agreement entered into at the effective time of the Merger, Marathon’s initial stockholders and CMA CGM can demand that Global Ship Lease register the resale of their common shares at any time after the one year anniversary of the Merger. Holders of the sponsor warrants were also entitled to request at any time after the Merger and did so request that the company register the Class A common shares underlying the sponsor warrants on a shelf registration statement. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of Global Ship Lease’s Class A common shares. 12 Table of Contents The outstanding warrants may be exercised in the future, which would increase the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market and result in dilution to our shareholders. There are 5,500,000 sponsor warrants with an exercise price of $6.00 which expire August 24, 2010. The sponsor warrants must be exercised on a cashless basis. There are 6,188,088 Class A warrants expiring September 1, 2013 with an exercise price of $9.25. These are owned by CMA CGM, Michael Gross and other initial stockholders of Marathon. In addition, there are outstanding public warrants to purchase an aggregate of 39,531,348 Class A common shares that expire August 24, 2010. These warrants would likely only be exercised if the $6.00 or $9.25 per share exercise price is below the market price of the Class A common shares. To the extent they are exercised, additional Class A common shares will be issued, which will result in dilution to our shareholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Global Ship Lease has swapped the majority of its anticipated core debt from floating rate based on LIBOR to fixed rate debt until at least March 2013 and therefore is locked into a base borrowing rate to which the applicable spread is added to determine the effective rate. Accordingly, Global Ship Lease has removed most of the volatility from its interest charge, other than for changes in the applicable margin, and is unable to benefit from falling LIBOR rates. As part of its risk management strategy and in order to avoid volatility in its interest expense as well as meet the requirement of the credit facility to fix the interest rate on at least 50% of drawn debt, Global Ship Lease has swapped the majority of its anticipated core debt from floating rate based on LIBOR to fixed rate debt until at least March 2013. Approximately $580 million of debt has been swapped into an average fixed rate of 3.59%. Global Ship Lease is therefore unable to benefit from falling LIBOR rates. Further, under the terms of the Credit Facility Amendment, prepayment of outstanding borrowings has been accelerated and it is likely that Global Ship Lease will be in an over-hedged position. Depending on fluctuations in LIBOR, our interest rate swap agreements and their accounting treatment in ourfinancial statements could result in deceases in our reported net income. We have entered into certain financial instrument contracts to hedge our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. These derivative instruments are accounted for under the relevant U.S. GAAP guidance at market value, as none of the derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, with changes in the value being recognized directly in our combined statement of income. During the year ended December 31, 2009, LIBOR the related forward interest rate curve experienced upward movement which significantly impacted the estimated market value of our financial instruments, resulting in a non-cash gain of $17.9 million in 2009. However, for the period from August 15, 2008 to December 31, 2008, we recorded a non-cash loss of $55.9 million. Future interest rate volatility may expose our net income to significant variations. Risks Related to the Industry of Global Ship Lease Global Ship Lease’s growth and long term profitability depend mainly upon growth in demand for containerships and the condition of the charter market. The container shipping industry is cyclical and volatile and the industry is currently experiencing a severe cyclical downturn. There is an excess of vessel capacity and demand for containerships has fallen. Charter rates and vessel values have dropped, thus reducing the company’s ability to secure new charterers at attractive rates. The container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of charter rates and profitability. Fluctuations in charter rates result from changes in the supply and demand for ship capacity, which is driven mainly by changes in the supply and demand for world trade container shipping services. There is currently an oversupply of ship capacity which has caused freight rates, charter rates and asset values, to fall. Charter rates have decreased significantly since mid 2008 and although short term charter rates have increased recently, rates may decrease in the future. The factors affecting the supply and demand for containerships and container shipping services are outside Global Ship Lease’s control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in industry conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for containership capacity include: • supply and demand for products suitable for shipping in containers; • changes in the pattern of global production of products transported by containerships; • the globalization of manufacturing; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which container cargoes are transported, the size of containerships, the extent of trans-shipments and the competitiveness of other forms of marine transportation including dry bulk and refrigerated vessels; 13 Table of Contents • environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; • the price of oil and economics of slow steaming; • the availability of trade finance and currency exchange rates; and • port and canal congestion. The factors that influence the supply of containership capacity include: • the containership newbuilding orderbook; • the availability of financing; • the scrapping rate of older containerships; • the number of containerships off-hire; • the price of steel and other raw materials; • changes in environmental and other laws and regulations that may limit the useful life of containerships; • the availability of shipyard capacity; • port and canal congestion; and • the price of oil, economics of slow steaming and number of vessels laid-up. Global Ship Lease’s ability to re-charter its fleet upon the expiration or termination of its charters, and the charter rates receivable under and the duration of any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, the then state of the containership market and how the then age and quality of Global Ship Lease’s fleet are perceived by the market. If the containership market is in a period of depression when Global Ship Lease’s vessels’ charters expire for whatever reason, including an oversupply of containership capacity, Global Ship Lease may be forced to re-charter its vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates, which may reduce or eliminate its earnings or make its earnings increasingly volatile, or it may not be able to re-charter its vessels at all. The same issues will exist if Global Ship Lease acquires additional vessels without charter arrangements in place, or at the expiration of charters that may be in place, obliging Global Ship Lease to try to fix employment of the additional vessels in the spot market while attempting to subject them to a long-term time charter arrangement. If the market value of vessels or charter rates substantially declines then Global Ship Lease may incur a financial loss if it attempts to sell one or more of its vessels. Containership values can fluctuate substantially over time and have recently declined significantly. A number of factors may contribute to a decrease in the market value of containerships, including: • unfavorable economic conditions in the market in which the containership trades; • a substantial or extended decline in world trade growth leading to reduced demand for container shipping services; • increases or an oversupply in global containership capacity; and • the cost of retrofitting or modifying existing ships, as a result of technological advances in vessel design or equipment, changes in applicable environmental or other regulations or standards or otherwise. If a charter terminates when the charter market for containerships is depressed, Global Ship Lease may be unable to re-charter the vessel at attractive rates and, rather than continue to incur costs to maintain and finance the vessel, Global Ship Lease may seek to dispose of it. It is likely that in such circumstances asset values will also be depressed. Inability to dispose of the containership at a reasonable price could result in a loss on the vessel’s sale and adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s results of operations and financial condition. Future fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values may trigger a possible impairment of Global Ship Lease’s vessels as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of Global Ship Lease—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates.” Charter-free market values of Global Ship Lease’s vessels pledged as security under the credit facility may also impact its ability to satisfy its leverage ratio covenant under the credit facility. Global Ship Lease may have more difficulty entering into long-term charters if a more active and cheaper short-term or spot container shipping market develops. At the expiration of Global Ship Lease’s charters, if a charter terminates early for any reason or if Global Ship Lease acquires vessels charter-free, Global Ship Lease will need to charter or re-charter its vessels. Should more vessels be available on the spot or short-term market at the time Global Ship Lease is seeking to fix new long-term charters, Global Ship Lease may have difficulty entering into such charters at profitable rates and for any term other than short term and, as a result, Global Ship Lease’s cash flow may be subject 14 Table of Contents to instability in the long-term. In addition, it would be more difficult to fix relatively older vessels should there be an oversupply of younger vessels on the market. A more active short-term or spot market may require Global Ship Lease to enter into spot or short-term charters based on prevailing market rates, as opposed to long-term contracts based on a fixed rate, which could result in a decrease in Global Ship Lease’s cash flow in periods when charter rates are depressed. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Piracy is an inherent risk in the operation of ocean-going vessels and has recently affected vessels trading in several regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. In recent years, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels has increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. Pirate attacks on any of the company’s vessels could result in loss of life, the kidnapping of crew or the theft, damage or destruction of vessels or of containers or cargo being transported thereon. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, insurance premiums and costs such as onboard security guards, should we decide to employ them, could increase in such circumstances. Further, acts of piracy may materially adversely affect our charterers, impairing their ability to make payments to us under our charters. Terrorist attacks and international hostilities could affect its results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, and the continuing response of the United States and other countries to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect Global Ship Lease’s business, results of operations and financial condition from increased security costs and more rigorous inspection procedures at borders and ports. From time to time acts of terrorism, regional conflict and other armed conflict around the world, may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s ability to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to Global Ship Lease or at all. Terrorist attacks targeted at oceangoing vessels may also negatively affect Global Ship Lease’s future operations and financial condition from, for example, increased insurance costs, and directly impact its containerships or its customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased market volatility or even a recession in the United States or elsewhere or negatively affect global financial markets, and could further increase inspection and security requirements and regulation that could slow its operations and negatively affect its profitability. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on Global Ship Lease’s operating results, revenue and costs. Risks inherent in the operation of containerships could impair the ability of the initial Charterer to make payments to Global Ship Lease, increase its costs or reduce the value of Global Ship Lease’s assets. Global Ship Lease’s containerships and its cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine accidents, bad weather, mechanical failures, human error, war, terrorism, piracy, environmental accidents and other circumstances or events. Any of these events connected to Global Ship Lease’s vessels or other vessels under the initial Charterer’s control, or any other factor which negatively affects the initial Charterer’s business such as the current economic downturn and significant cyclical depression in the container shipping industry, could impair the ability of the initial Charterer to make payments to Global Ship Lease pursuant to its charters. Although the initial Charterer is obligated to pay Global Ship Lease charterhire regardless of the amount of cargo being carried on board, it is possible that generally low cargo volumes and low freight rates or events noted above may render the initial Charterer financially unable to pay Global Ship Lease its hire. Furthermore, there is a risk that a vessel may become damaged, lost or destroyed during normal operations and any such occurrence may cause Global Ship Lease additional expenses to repair or substitute the vessel or may render Global Ship Lease unable to provide the vessel for chartering, which will cause Global Ship Lease to lose charter revenue. These occurrences could also result in death or injury to persons, loss of property or environmental damage, loss of revenues from or termination of charter contracts, governmental fines, penalties or restrictions on conducting business, higher insurance rates, and damage to Global Ship Lease’s reputation and customer relationships generally. Any of these circumstances or events could increase its costs or lower Global Ship Lease’s revenues, which could result in reduction in the market price of its Class A common shares. Maritime claimants could arrest Global Ship Lease’s vessels, which could interrupt the initial Charterer’s or Global Ship Lease’s cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of Global Ship Lease’s vessels, for valid or invalid reasons, could interrupt the initial Charterer’s or Global Ship Lease’s cash flow and require the initial Charterer or Global Ship Lease or Global Ship Lease’s insurance to pay a significant amount to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the “sister ship” theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel that is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any “associated” vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert “sister ship” liability against one vessel in its fleet for claims relating to another vessel in its fleet. In any event, any lien imposed may adversely affect its results of operations by delaying the revenue gained from ships. 15 Table of Contents Governments could requisition Global Ship Lease’s vessels during a period of war or emergency without adequate compensation. A government could requisition one or more of Global Ship Lease’s vessels for title or for hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes its owner, while requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes its charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during periods of war or emergency, although governments may elect to requisition vessels in other circumstances. Although Global Ship Lease would likely be entitled to compensation in the event of a requisition of one or more of its vessels, the amount and timing of payment would be uncertain. Government requisition of one or more of Global Ship Lease’s vessels may negatively impact its revenues and cash flow. Technological innovation could reduce Global Ship Lease’s charter income and the value of Global Ship Lease’s vessels. The charter rates and the value and operational life of a vessel are determined by a number of factors including the vessel’s efficiency, operational flexibility and physical condition. Efficiency includes speed, fuel economy and the ability to load and discharge containers quickly. Flexibility includes the ability to enter harbors with draft or other physical considerations, utilize related dock facilities, such as cranes, load or unload with on-board cranes, carry temperature controlled containers and pass through canals and straits. Physical condition is related to the original design and construction, maintenance and the impact of the stress of operations. If new containerships are built that are more efficient or more flexible or have longer physical lives than Global Ship Lease’s vessels, competition from these more technologically advanced containerships could adversely affect the amount of charterhire Global Ship Lease receives for its vessels once their initial charters expire and the resale value of its vessels could significantly decrease. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be costly and may adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s business and operating results. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must conform to the rules and standards of a classification society approved by the vessel’s country of registry. Such societies set the rules and standards for the design, construction, classification, and surveys of vessels and conduct surveys to determine whether vessels are in compliance with such rules and standards. A certification by the society is an attestation that the vessel is in compliance with the society’s rules and standards. A vessel involved in international trade must also conform to national and international regulations on safety, environment and security, including (but not limited to) the Safety of Life at Sea Convention, or SOLAS, and the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships. A vessel conforms to such regulations by obtaining certificates from its country of registry and/or a classification society authorized by the country of registry. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special or class renewal survey, a vessel’s machinery may be reviewed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Please see “Business Overview—Inspection by Classification Societies” for more information regarding annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. Bureau Veritas, Lloyd’s Register and Germanischer Lloyd, the classification societies for the vessels in Global Ship Lease’s fleet, may approve and carry out in-water inspections of the underwater parts of its vessels once every three to five years, in lieu of drydocking inspections. In-water inspections are typically less expensive than drydocking inspections and Global Ship Lease intends to conduct in-water inspections when that option is available to it. If a vessel does not maintain its “in class” certification or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, port authorities may detain the vessel, refuse her entry into port or refuse to allow her to trade resulting in the vessel being unable to trade and therefore rendering her unemployable. In the event that a vessel becomes unemployable, Global Ship Lease could also be in violation of provisions in its charters, insurance coverage, covenants in its loan agreements and ship registration requirements and its revenues and future profitability would be negatively affected. Global Ship Lease is subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could require significant expenditures and affect Global Ship Lease’s cash flows and net income. The shipping industry, and the operations of containerships, are materially affected by environmental regulation in the form of international conventions, national, state and local laws and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which Global Ship Lease’s containerships operate, as well as in the country or countries of their registration, including those governing the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of oil spills and other contamination, air emissions, water discharges and ballast water management. Because such conventions, laws and regulations are often revised, Global Ship Lease cannot predict the cost of complying with such requirements or the impact thereof on the value or useful life of its containerships. Additional conventions, laws and regulations may be adopted that could limit Global Ship Lease’s ability to do business or increase the cost of its doing business and which may materially adversely affect Global Ship Lease’s operations. Global Ship Lease is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to its operations. Many environmental requirements are designed to reduce the risk of pollution, such as oil spills, and compliance with these requirements can be costly. 16 Table of Contents Environmental requirements can also affect the value or useful lives of vessels, require a reduction in cargo capacity, ship modifications or operational changes or restrictions, lead to decreased availability of insurance coverage for environmental matters or result in the denial of access to certain jurisdictional waters or ports, or detention in certain ports. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, Global Ship Lease could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations and natural resource damages, in the event that there is a release of oil-based products or other hazardous materials from its vessels or otherwise in connection with its operations. Global Ship Lease could also become subject to personal injury or property damage claims relating to the release of hazardous materials associated with its existing or historic operations. Violations of, or liabilities under, environmental requirements can result in substantial penalties, fines and other sanctions, including in certain instances, criminal liabilities or seizure or detention of its vessels. In addition, significant compliance costs could be incurred due to existing environmental laws and regulations and those that may be adopted, which could require new maintenance and inspection procedures and new restrictions on air emissions from its containerships, the development of contingency arrangements for potential spills and/or obtaining insurance coverage. Government regulation of vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental requirements, can be expected to become increasingly strict in the future and require Global Ship Lease to incur significant capital expenditures on its vessels to keep them in compliance, or even to scrap or sell certain vessels altogether. Global Ship Lease believes that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for Global Ship Lease and its competitors. Substantial violations of applicable requirements or a catastrophic release of bunker fuel from one of its containerships, among other events, could have a material adverse impact on its business, financial condition and results of operations. For additional information on these and other environmental requirements, you should carefully review the information contained in “Business Overview—Environmental and Other Regulations.” Risks Related to Tax Matters Global Ship Lease’s operating income could fail to qualify for an exemption from U.S. federal income taxation, which will reduce its cash flow. Global Ship Lease does not expect to be engaged in a United States trade or business. In the case of a foreign corporation that is not so engaged, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), imposes a 4% U.S. federal income tax (without allowance of any deductions) on 50% of the corporation’s gross transportation income that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not both begin and end, in the United States, unless the corporation qualifies for the exemption provided in Section 883 of the Code. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on Global Ship Lease’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the charter agreements, the initial Charterer has agreed to provide reimbursement for any such taxes as the initial Charterer determines where each vessel trades. There are factual circumstances, such as the composition of its shareholder base, beyond Global Ship Lease’s control that could cause it not to have the benefit of the exemption provided by Section 883 of the Code and thereby be subject to the 4% tax described above. Based on information that Global Ship Lease has as to its shareholders and other matters, Global Ship Lease may qualify for the Section 883 exemption for 2009. Because the availability of the Section 883 exemption depends on matters over which Global Ship Lease has no control, Global Ship Lease can give no assurances that it will or will continue to qualify for the Section 883 exemption. See “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—The Section 883 exemption” for a more comprehensive discussion of the transportation income exemption. Global Ship Lease could be taxed as a United States corporation. Section 7874 of the Code provides that a foreign corporation which acquires substantially all the properties of a U.S. corporation is generally treated as though it were a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes if, after the acquisition, at least 80% (by vote or value) of the stock of the foreign corporation is owned by former shareholders of the U.S. corporation by reason of owning stock in the U.S. corporation. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP has given a legal opinion that this rule should not apply to Global Ship Lease. Such opinion relied, in part, on assumptions, representations and other information as to certain factual matters, including valuation. Valuation is a question of fact and is subjective. There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) would not seek to challenge the correctness of such assumptions, representations or other information or the conclusion reached in such legal opinion, or that such a challenge would not be successful. Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP has not undertaken any obligation to update its opinion. If Global Ship Lease were to be treated as a U.S. corporation, its net income would be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax, with the highest statutory rate currently being 35%. The imposition of this tax would likely have a negative effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—Possibility of taxation as a U.S. corporation” for a more comprehensive discussion of the tax consequences to Global Ship Lease being taxed as a U.S. corporation. 17 Table of Contents Certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could arise for United States holders. Shareholders of a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, that are United States persons within the meaning of the Code, which Global Ship Lease refers to as “United States shareholders,” are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the distributions they receive from a PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in a PFIC (as discussed below). In addition, dividends paid by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and, hence, are ineligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. A foreign corporation is treated as a PFIC if either (1) 75% or more of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of “passive income” or (2) 50% or more of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of “passive income.” For purposes of these tests, “passive income” includes dividends, interest and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business; income derived from the performance of services does not, however, constitute “passive income.” While there are legal uncertainties involved in this determination, based on representations made by Global Ship Lease, GSL Holdings and Marathon, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, or Simpson Thacher, has advised Global Ship Lease, and has delivered an opinion to the effect, that (1) the charters Global Ship Lease has entered into with CMA CGM should constitute service contracts rather than leases for U.S. federal income tax purposes and (2) as a result, the income from these charters should not constitute “passive income,” and the assets Global Ship Lease owns for the production of this income should not constitute passive assets. Based on this opinion, Global Ship Lease does not expect that it will constitute a PFIC with respect to the current or any future taxable year. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing its current and projected future operations. In addition, Simpson Thacher’s opinion was based on certain representations made by Global Ship Lease, GSL Holdings and Marathon, and such representations were not and will not be presented for review to the IRS. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the IRS will not assert that Global Ship Lease is a PFIC with respect to any taxable year, nor that a court would not uphold any such assertion. Moreover, no assurance can be given that Global Ship Lease will be able to avoid PFIC classification for any future taxable year if Global Ship Lease decides to change the nature and/or extent of its operations. Simpson Thacher has not undertaken any obligation to update its opinion. Further, in a recent case not concerning PFICs, Tidewater Inc. v. U.S., 2009-1 USTC ¶ 50,337, the Fifth Circuit held that a vessel time charter at issue generated rental, rather than services, income. However, the court’s ruling was contrary to the position of the IRS that the time charter income should be treated as services income, and the terms of the time charter in that case differ in material respects from the terms of most of Global Ship Lease’s time charters. No assurance can be given that the IRS or a court of law would accept Global Ship Lease’s position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that the company is a PFIC. If the IRS were to determine that Global Ship Lease is or has been a PFIC for any taxable year, its United States shareholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Distributions paid by Global Ship Lease with respect to its shares will not constitute qualified dividend income if Global Ship Lease were a PFIC in the year Global Ship Lease pays a dividend or in the prior taxable year and, hence, will not be eligible for the preferential rate of tax that applies to qualified dividend income. In addition, its United States shareholders (other than shareholders who have made a “qualified electing fund” or “mark-to-market” election) will be subject to special rules relating to the taxation of “excess distributions”—with excess distributions being defined to include certain distributions Global Ship Lease may make on its Class A common shares as well as gain recognized by a U.S. holder on a disposition of its Class A common shares. In general, the amount of any “excess distribution” will be allocated ratably to each day of the U.S. holder’s holding period for its Class A common shares. The amount allocated to the current year and any taxable year prior to the first taxable year for which Global Ship Lease was a PFIC will be included in the U.S. holder’s gross income for the current year as ordinary income. With respect to amounts allocated to prior years for which Global Ship Lease was a PFIC, the tax imposed for the current year will be increased by the “deferred tax amount,” which is an amount calculated with respect to each prior year by multiplying the amount allocated to such year by the highest rate of tax in effect for such year, together with an interest charge as though the amounts of tax were overdue. See “Additional Information—Taxation—Taxation of Global Ship Lease—Tax Consequences of Holding Class A Common Shares—U.S. holders—Consequences of possible passive foreign investment company classification” for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if Global Ship Lease were treated as a PFIC (including those applicable to United States shareholders who make a qualified electing fund or mark-to-market election). Global Ship Lease may be subject to taxation on all or part of its income in the United Kingdom, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations. If Global Ship Lease were considered to be a resident of the United Kingdom or to have a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, all or a part of its profits could be subject to UK corporate tax, which currently has a maximum rate of 28%. Global Ship Lease is managed and controlled from outside the United Kingdom and restricts its activities within the United Kingdom so that its UK taxes will be minimized. Certain intra-group services may be provided from within the United Kingdom, in which case UK corporate tax will be payable on the arms-length price for those services. The appropriate arms-length price in these circumstances is likely to be a matter of negotiation with the UK taxing authorities. 18 Table of Contents Because some administrative and executive services will be provided to Global Ship Lease by a subsidiary company located in the United Kingdom and certain of its directors may reside in the United Kingdom, and because UK statutory and case law fail to definitively identify the activities that constitute a trade being carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment, the UK taxing authorities may contend that Global Ship Lease is subject to UK corporate tax on all of its income, or on a greater portion of its income than Global Ship Lease currently expects to be taxed. If the UK taxing authorities made such a contention, Global Ship Lease could incur substantial legal costs defending its position, and, if Global Ship Lease was unsuccessful in its defense, its results of operations would be materially adversely affected. 