ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS - continued In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In performing this evaluation and testing, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2014. We are performing ongoing updates of our policies and procedures in an effort to ensure our internal control remains effective. Our compliance with Section 404, will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group, and we will need to engage independent professional assistance. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if in the future we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Certain Factors Related to Our Common Stock There presently is a limited market for our common stock, and the price of our common stock may be volatile. Our common stock is currently quoted on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Our shares, however, are very thinly traded, and we have a very limited trading history. There could be volatility in the volume and market price of our common stock moving forward. This volatility may be caused by a variety of factors, including the lack of readily available quotations, the absence of consistent administrative supervision of “bid” and “ask” quotations, and generally lower trading volume. In addition, factors such as quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, or our failure to meet our or their projected financial and operating results, litigation involving us, factors relating to the oil and gas industry, actions by governmental agencies, national economic and stock market considerations, as well as other events and circumstances beyond our control could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock and the relative volatility of such market price. We have received a notice of failure to satisfy a continued listing requirement of NASDAQ On January 20, 2015, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications Staff (the “Staff”) of The NASDAQ Stock Market advising us that the Staff has determined that for the last 30 consecutive business days, we no longer meet the requirement of Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) which requires us to maintain a minimum bid price of $1 per share. The Listing Rules provide us with a compliance period of 180 calendar days in which to regain compliance. Accordingly, we will regain compliance if at any time during this 180 day period the closing bid price of our common stock is at least $1 for a minimum of ten consecutive business days. In the event we do not regain compliance by the end of the 180 day compliance period on July 20, 2015, we may be eligible for additional time. To qualify, we will be required to meet the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other initial listing standards for The Nasdaq Capital Market, with the exception of the bid price requirement, and will need to provide written notice of our intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period, by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. If we meet these requirements, the Staff will inform us that we have been granted an additional 180 calendar days. However, if it appears to the Staff that we will not be able to cure the deficiency, or if we are otherwise not eligible, the Staff will provide us notice that our common stock will be subject to delisting. At that time, we may appeal the delisting determination to a Hearings Panel. We are currently reviewing our options to regain compliance with the NASDAQ Listing Rules. If we are unable to regain compliance and are ultimately delisted from NASDAQ, this may have a material adverse impact on our stockholders. Offers or availability for sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our stockholders could sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, including shares sold upon the filing of a registration statement that registers such shares and/or upon the expiration of any statutory holding period under Rule 144 of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), if available, or upon the expiration of trading limitation periods. Such volume could create a circumstance commonly referred to as a market “overhang” and in anticipation of which the market price of our common stock could fall. Additionally, we have a large number of convertible promissory notes that are presently convertible and warrants that are presently exercisable. The conversion or exercise of a large amount of these securities followed by the subsequent sale of the underlying stock in the market would likely have a negative effect on our common stock’s market price. The existence of an overhang, whether or not sales have occurred or are occurring, also could make it more difficult for us to secure additional financing through the sale of equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem reasonable or appropriate. Our directors and officers have rights to indemnification. Our Bylaws provide, as permitted by governing Nevada law, that we will indemnify our directors, officers, and employees, whether or not then in service as such, against all reasonable expenses actually and necessarily incurred by him or her in connection with the defense of any litigation to which the individual may have been made a party because he or she is or was a director, officer, or employee of the company. The inclusion of these provisions in the Bylaws may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and officers, and may discourage or deter stockholders or management from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breach of their duty of care, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise have benefited us and our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. The payment of dividends, if any, would be contingent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements, and general financial condition. The payment of any dividends will be within the discretion of our Board of Directors. We presently intend to retain all earnings, if any, to implement our business strategy; accordingly, we do not anticipate the declaration of any dividends in the foreseeable future. 20 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 