ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition or future results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategy on a timely basis or at all. Our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to implement our growth strategy of expanding distribution and improving placement of our products, attracting new consumers to our brand and introducing new product lines and product extensions. Our ability to implement this growth strategy depends, among other things, on our ability to: • enter into distribution and other strategic arrangements with third-party retailers and other potential distributors of our products; • continue to compete in conventional grocery and mass merchandiser retail channels in addition to the natural and organic channel; • secure shelf space in mainstream aisles; • increase our brand recognition; • expand and maintain brand loyalty; and • develop new product lines and extensions. We may not be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our sales and operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to implement our growth strategy or if we invest resources in a growth strategy that ultimately proves unsuccessful. If we fail to develop and maintain our brand, our business could suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining our brand is critical to our success. The importance of our brand recognition may become greater as competitors offer more products similar to ours. Our brand-building activities involve increasing awareness of our brand, creating and maintaining brand loyalty and increasing the availability of our products. If our brand-building activities are unsuccessful, we may never recover the expenses incurred in connection with these efforts, and we may be unable to implement our business strategy and increase our future sales. Our brand and reputation may be diminished due to real or perceived quality or health issues with our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We believe our consumers rely on us to provide them with high-quality natural and organic food products. Concerns regarding the ingredients used in our products or the safety or quality of our products or our supply chain may cause consumers to stop purchasing our products, even if the basis for the concern is unfounded, has been addressed or is outside of our control. Although we believe we have a rigorous quality control process, there can be no assurance that our products will always comply with the standards set for our products. For example, although we strive to keep our products free of genetically modified organisms, they may not be easily detected and contamination can occur through cross-pollination. Also, we use epoxy linings that contain bisphenol-A, commonly called BPA, as part of the protective barrier between the metal can and food contents in our canned 14 Table of Contents pasta meals. Although the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, currently allows the use of BPA in food packaging materials and has not approved a BPA-free can for use with our type of products, public reports and concerns regarding the potential hazards of BPA could contribute to a perceived safety risk for products packaged using BPA. Adverse publicity about the quality or safety of our products, whether or not ultimately based on fact, may discourage consumers from buying our products and have an adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results. We have no control over our products once purchased by consumers. Accordingly, consumers may prepare our products in a manner that is inconsistent with our directions or store our products for long periods of time, which may adversely affect the quality of our products. If consumers do not perceive our products to be of high quality, then the value of our brand would be diminished, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Any loss of confidence on the part of consumers in the ingredients used in our products or in the safety and quality of our products would be difficult and costly to overcome. Any such adverse effect could be exacerbated by our position in the market as a purveyor of high-quality natural and organic food products and may significantly reduce our brand value. Issues regarding the safety of any of our products, regardless of the cause, may have a substantial and adverse effect on our brand, reputation and operating results. We may be subject to significant liability if the consumption of any of our products causes illness or physical harm. The sale of food products for human consumption involves the risk of injury or illness to consumers. Such injuries or illness may result from inadvertent mislabeling, tampering or product contamination or spoilage. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to recall or withdraw products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, in 2008, we carried out an FDA Class 1 recall for approximately 680 cases of our salad dressing due to ingredient mislabeling. Even if a situation does not necessitate a recall or market withdrawal, product liability claims may be asserted against us. If the consumption of any of our products causes, or is alleged to have caused, a health-related illness, we may become subject to claims or lawsuits relating to such matters. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our products caused illness or physical harm could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential distributors, retailers and consumers and our corporate image and brand equity. Moreover, claims or liabilities of this sort might not be covered by insurance or by any rights of indemnity or contribution that we may have against others. A product liability judgment against us or a product recall or market withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. Disruptions in the worldwide economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse and uncertain economic conditions may impact distributor, retailer and consumer demand for our products. In addition, our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, retailers, consumers and creditors may suffer. Consumers may shift purchases to lower-priced or other perceived value offerings during economic downturns. In particular, consumers may reduce the amount of natural and organic products that they purchase where there are conventional offerings, which generally have lower retail prices. In addition, consumers may choose to purchase private label products rather than branded products because they are generally less expensive. Distributors and retailers may become more conservative in response to these conditions and seek to reduce their inventories. For example, during the economic downturn from 2007 through 2009, distributors and retailers significantly reduced their inventories, and inventory levels have not returned to, and are not expected to return to, pre-downturn levels. Our results of operations depend upon, among other things, our ability to maintain and increase sales volume with our existing distributors and retailers, to attract new consumers and to provide products that appeal to consumers at prices they are willing and able to pay. Prolonged unfavorable economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents Consumer preferences for our products are difficult to predict and may change, and, if we are unable to respond quickly to new trends, our business may be adversely affected. Our business is focused on the development, manufacture, marketing and distribution of a line of branded natural and organic food products. If consumer demand for our products decreased, our business would suffer. In addition, sales of natural and organic products are subject to evolving consumer preferences. Consumer trends that we believe favor sales of our products could change based on a number of possible factors, including a shift in preference from organic to non-organic and from natural to non-natural products, economic factors and social trends. A significant shift in consumer demand away from our products could reduce our sales or the prestige of our brand, which would harm our business. We may not have the resources to compete successfully in our highly competitive markets. We operate in a highly competitive market. Numerous brands and products compete for limited retailer shelf space and consumers. In our market, competition is based on, among other things, product quality and taste, brand recognition and loyalty, product variety, interesting or unique product names, product packaging and package design, shelf space, reputation, price, advertising, promotion and nutritional claims. The packaged food industry is dominated by multinational corporations with substantially greater resources and operations than us. We cannot be certain that we will successfully compete with larger competitors that have greater financial, sales and technical resources. Conventional food companies, including Kraft Foods Inc., General Mills, Inc., Campbell Soup Company, PepsiCo, Inc., Nestle S.A. and Kellogg Company, may be able to use their resources and scale to respond to competitive pressures and changes in consumer preferences by introducing new products, reducing prices or increasing promotional activities, among other things. We also compete with other natural and organic packaged food brands and companies, including The Hain Celestial Group, Inc., Newman’s Own, Inc., Nature’s Path Foods, Inc., Clif Bar & Company and Amy’s Kitchen, and with smaller companies, which may be more innovative and able to bring new products to market faster and to more quickly exploit and serve niche markets. Retailers also market competitive products under their own private labels, which are generally sold at lower prices and compete with some of our products. As a result of competition, we may need to increase our marketing, advertising and promotional spending to protect our existing market share, which may adversely impact our profitability. We may not have the financial resources to increase such spending when necessary. Failure to introduce new products or improve existing products successfully would adversely affect our ability to continue to grow. A key element of our growth strategy depends on our ability to develop and market new products and improvements to our existing products that meet our standards for quality and appeal to consumer preferences. The success of our innovation and product development efforts is affected by our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences, the technical capability of our product development staff in developing and testing product prototypes, including complying with governmental regulations, and the success of our management and sales team in introducing and marketing new products. Failure to develop and market new products that appeal to consumers may lead to a decrease in our growth, sales and profitability. Additionally, the development and introduction of new products requires substantial research, development and marketing expenditures, which we may be unable to recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. If we are unsuccessful in meeting our objectives with respect to new or improved products, our business could be harmed. Ingredient and packaging costs are volatile and may rise significantly, which may negatively impact the profitability of our business. We purchase large quantities of raw materials, including ingredients such as wheat and flour, dairy products, oils and sugar. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of cardboard, film and glass to package our 16 Table of Contents products. Costs of ingredients and packaging are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, weather conditions, consumer demand and changes in governmental trade and agricultural programs. In fiscal 2012, our ingredient costs were higher than in fiscal 2011, and we expect that the cost of certain of our key ingredients will continue to increase. Continued volatility in the prices of raw materials and other supplies we purchase could increase our cost of sales and reduce our profitability. Moreover, we may not be able to implement price increases for our products to cover any increased costs, and any price increases we do implement may result in lower sales volumes. If we are not successful in managing our ingredient and packaging costs, if we are unable to increase our prices to cover increased costs or if such price increases reduce our sales volumes, then such increases in costs will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by reduced availability of organic ingredients. Our ability to ensure a continuing supply of organic ingredients at competitive prices depends on many factors beyond our control, such as the number and size of farms that grow organic crops or raise organic livestock, the vagaries of these farming businesses (including poor harvests), changes in national and world economic conditions and our ability to forecast our ingredient requirements. The organic ingredients used in many of our products are vulnerable to adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, such as floods, droughts, frosts, earthquakes, hurricanes and pestilences. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters can lower crop yields and reduce crop size and quality, which in turn could reduce the available supply of, or increase the price of, organic ingredients. For example, in fiscal 2011, organic wheat and sunflower oil were in shorter supply than we expected. In addition, we purchase some ingredients offshore, and the availability of such ingredients may be affected by events in other countries, including Colombia, Paraguay, Thailand and Brazil. In addition, we compete with other food producers in the procurement of organic ingredients, which are often less plentiful in the open market than conventional ingredients. This competition may increase in the future if consumer demand for organic products increases. If supplies of organic ingredients are reduced or there is greater demand for such ingredients from us and others, we may not be able to obtain sufficient supply on favorable terms, or at all, which could impact our ability to supply products to distributors and retailers and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on sales to a limited number of distributors and retailers for the substantial majority of our sales, and the loss of one or more significant distributors or retailers may harm our business. A substantial majority of our sales are generated from a limited number of distributors and retailers. For fiscal 2012, sales to our principal distributor and largest customer, UNFI, represented approximately 25% of our net sales, and sales to our top two retailers, Target and Costco, represented an aggregate of approximately 26% of our net sales. Although the composition of our significant distributors and retailers will vary from period to period, we expect that most of our sales will continue to come from a relatively small number of distributors and retailers for the foreseeable future. We do not have commitments or minimum volumes that ensure future sales of our products. Consequently, our financial results may fluctuate significantly from period to period based on the actions of one or more significant distributors or retailers. For example, in fiscal 2010, sales to Costco were $3.2 million lower than in fiscal 2009, which contributed to lower sales growth. A distributor or retailer may take actions that affect us for reasons that we cannot always anticipate or control, such as their financial condition, changes in their business strategy or operations, the introduction of competing products or the perceived quality of our products. In addition, despite operating in different channels, our retailers sometimes compete for the same consumers. As a result of actual or perceived conflicts resulting from this competition, retailers may take actions that negatively affect us. Our agreements with our distributors and retailers may be canceled if we materially breach the agreements or for other reasons, including reasons outside of our control. In addition, our distributors and retailers may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. The loss of, or a reduction in sales or anticipated sales to, one or more of our most significant distributors or retailers may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Loss of one or more of our contract manufacturers or our failure to identify timely new contract manufacturers could harm our business and impede our growth. We derive all of our sales from products manufactured at manufacturing facilities owned and operated by our contract manufacturers. During fiscal 2012, we paid $62.4 million in the aggregate to our top three contract manufacturers. We do not have written contracts with all of our contract manufacturers, including Lucerne Foods, one of our top three contract manufacturers that manufactures several of our top selling products. Any of our contract manufacturers could seek to alter its relationship with us. If we need to replace a contract manufacturer, there can be no assurance that additional capacity will be available when required on acceptable terms, or at all. An interruption in, or the loss of operations at, one or more of our contract manufacturing facilities, which may be caused by work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics, acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters at one or more of these facilities, could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition until such time as such interruption is resolved or an alternate source of production is secured. The success of our business depends, in part, on maintaining a strong manufacturing platform. We believe there are a limited number of competent, high-quality contract manufacturers in the industry that meet our strict standards, and if we were required to obtain additional or alternative contract manufacturing arrangements in the future, there can be no assurance that we would be able to do so on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner or at all. Therefore, the loss of one or more contract manufacturers, any disruption or delay at a contract manufacturer or any failure to identify and engage contract manufacturers for new products could delay or postpone production of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in the past, changing the contract manufacturer for one of our product lines took approximately six months to implement. At present, we do not have back-up contract manufacturers identified for certain of our product lines, and the loss of contract manufacturers for any of these product lines would result in our inability to produce and deliver the products to our customers until we could identify and retain an alternative contract manufacturer and until that contract manufacturer was able to produce the products to our specifications. Because we rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers, we may not be able to obtain raw materials on a timely basis or in sufficient quantities to produce our products. We rely on a limited number of vendors to supply us with raw materials. Our financial performance depends in large part on our ability to arrange for the purchase of raw materials in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We are not assured of continued supply, pricing or exclusive access to raw materials from these sources. Any of our suppliers could discontinue or seek to alter their relationship with us. For example, we may be adversely affected if they raise their prices, stop selling to us or our contract manufacturers or enter into arrangements that impair their ability to provide raw materials for us. We have a single supplier for the cheese powders used in our products, including macaroni and cheese, cheddar crackers and snack mix. Any disruption in this or other supplier relationships would have a material adverse effect on our business. Events that adversely affect our suppliers could impair our ability to obtain raw material inventory in the quantities that we desire. Such events include problems with our suppliers’ businesses, finances, labor relations, ability to import raw materials, costs, production, insurance and reputation, as well as natural disasters or other catastrophic occurrences. If we experience significant increased demand for our products, or need to replace an existing supplier, there can be no assurance that additional supplies of raw materials will be available when required on acceptable terms, or at all, or that any supplier would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements, fill 18 Table of Contents our orders in a timely manner or meet our strict quality standards. Even if our existing suppliers are able to expand their capacity to meet our needs or we are able to find new sources of raw materials, we may encounter delays in production, inconsistencies in quality and added costs. Any delays or interruption in, or increased costs of, our supply of raw materials could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand for our products and result in lower net sales and profitability both in the short and long term. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property adequately, which may harm the value of our brand. We believe that our intellectual property has substantial value and has contributed significantly to the success of our business. Our trademarks, including our “Annie’s®,” “Annie’s Homegrown®,” “Annie’s Naturals®” and “Bernie Rabbit of Approval®” marks, are valuable assets that reinforce our brand and consumers’ favorable perception of our products. We also rely on unpatented proprietary expertise, recipes and formulations and other trade secrets and copyright protection to develop and maintain our competitive position. Our continued success depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to protect and preserve our intellectual property, including our trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and copyrights. We rely on confidentiality agreements and trademark, trade secret and copyright law to protect our intellectual property rights. Our confidentiality agreements with our employees, and certain of our consultants, suppliers and independent contractors, including some of our contract manufacturers who use our recipes to manufacture our products, generally require that all information made known to them be kept strictly confidential. Nevertheless, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Although we attempt to protect our trade secrets, our confidentiality agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of such information. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights against such parties. Further, some of our recipes and ingredient formulations have been developed by or with our suppliers and contract manufacturers and are not exclusive to us. Finally, we do not have written confidentiality agreements with all of our contract manufacturers. As a result, we may not be able to prevent others from using our recipes or formulations. From time to time, third parties have used names or packaging similar to ours, have applied to register trademarks similar to ours and, we believe, have infringed or misappropriated our intellectual property rights. We respond to these actions on a case-by-case basis, including, where appropriate, by sending cease and desist letters and commencing opposition actions and litigation. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate, that our intellectual property rights can be successfully defended and asserted in the future or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any such rights. In addition, our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be canceled or narrowed. Failure to protect our trademark rights could prevent us in the future from challenging third parties who use names and logos similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause consumer confusion or negatively affect consumers’ perception of our brand and products. In addition, if we do not keep our trade secrets confidential, others may produce products with our recipes or formulations. Moreover, intellectual property disputes and proceedings and infringement claims may result in a significant distraction for management and significant expense, which may not be recoverable regardless of whether we are successful. Such proceedings may be protracted with no certainty of success, and an adverse outcome could subject us to liabilities, force us to cease use of certain trademarks or other intellectual property or force us to enter into licenses with others. Any one of these occurrences may have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure by our suppliers of raw materials or contract manufacturers to comply with food safety, environmental or other laws and regulations may disrupt our supply of products and adversely affect our business. If our suppliers or contract manufacturers fail to comply with food safety, environmental or other laws and regulations, or face allegations of non-compliance, their operations may be disrupted. For example, the USDA 19 Table of Contents requires that our certified organic products be free of genetically modified organisms, but unavoidable cross-pollination at one of our suppliers may result in genetically modified organisms in our supply chain. In the event of actual or alleged non-compliance, we might be forced to find an alternative supplier or contract manufacturer. As a result, our supply of raw materials or finished inventory could be disrupted or our costs could increase, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, actions we may take to mitigate the impact of any such disruption or potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential supply or production interruption, may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in existing regulations and the adoption of new regulations may increase our costs and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The manufacture and marketing of food products is highly regulated. We and our suppliers and contract manufacturers are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These laws and regulations apply to many aspects of our business, including the manufacture, packaging, labeling, distribution, advertising, sale, quality and safety of our products, as well as the health and safety of our employees and the protection of the environment. In the U.S., we are subject to regulation by various government agencies, including the FDA, USDA, Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various state and local agencies. We are also regulated outside the United States by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, as well as Canadian provincial and local agencies. In addition, we are subject to review by voluntary organizations, such as the Council of Better Business Bureaus’ National Advertising Division and the Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative. We could incur costs, including fines, penalties and third-party claims, as a result of any violations of, or liabilities under, such requirements. For example, in connection with the marketing and advertisement of our products, we could be the target of claims relating to false or deceptive advertising, including under the auspices of the FTC and the consumer protection statutes of some states. Any change in manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements for our products may lead to an increase in costs or interruptions in production, either of which could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. New or revised government laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Food Safety Modernization Act passed in January 2011, which grants the FDA greater authority over the safety of the national food supply, as well as increased enforcement by government agencies, could result in additional compliance costs and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, withdrawals, recalls or seizures and confiscations, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our brand and reputation may suffer from real or perceived issues involving the labeling and marketing of our products as “natural.” Although the FDA and USDA have each issued statements regarding the appropriate use of the word “natural,” there is no single, U.S. government-regulated definition of the term “natural” for use in the food industry. The resulting uncertainty has led to consumer confusion, distrust and legal challenges. Plaintiffs have commenced legal actions against a number of food companies that market “natural” products, asserting false, misleading and deceptive advertising and labeling claims. Should we become subject to similar claims, consumers may avoid purchasing products from us or seek alternatives, even if the basis for the claim is unfounded. Adverse publicity about these matters may discourage consumers from buying our products. The cost of defending against any such claims could be significant. Any loss of confidence on the part of consumers in the truthfulness of our labeling or ingredient claims would be difficult and costly to overcome and may significantly reduce our brand value. Uncertainty as to the ingredients used in our products, regardless of the cause, may have a substantial and adverse effect on our brand and our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents We use annatto as a color additive in certain of our products. Although annatto is a natural substance derived from achiote trees, in policy statements the FDA takes the position that annatto is an artificial color additive because it adds a color not normally found in the foods to which it is added. Although we have not received one, the FDA has issued warning letters to some companies selling products labeled as natural that contain annatto stating the labels are false and misleading. If we were forced by the FDA to cease the use of annatto in our products, consumers who demand orange-colored products, particularly macaroni and cheese, could stop buying our products, which would adversely affect our sales. The loss of independent certification on which we rely for a number of our products could harm our business. We rely on independent certification of our organic products and must comply with the requirements of independent organizations or certification authorities in order to label our products as such. Certain of our products could lose their “organic” certification if a contract manufacturing plant becomes contaminated with non-organic materials or if it is not properly cleaned after a production run. The loss of any independent certifications, including for reasons outside of our control, could harm our business. Failure by our transportation providers to deliver our products on time or at all could result in lost sales. We currently rely upon third-party transportation providers for a significant portion of our product shipments. Our utilization of delivery services for shipments is subject to risks, including increases in fuel prices, which would increase our shipping costs, and employee strikes and inclement weather, which may impact the ability of providers to provide delivery services that adequately meet our shipping needs. We periodically change shipping companies, and we could face logistical difficulties that could adversely affect deliveries. In addition, we could incur costs and expend resources in connection with such change. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain terms as favorable as those we receive from the third-party transportation providers that we currently use, which in turn would increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our operating results. If we do not manage our supply chain effectively, including inventory levels, our operating results may be adversely affected. The inability of any supplier, independent contract manufacturer, third-party distributor or transportation provider to deliver or perform for us in a timely or cost-effective manner could cause our operating costs to increase and our profit margins to decrease. We must continuously monitor our inventory and product mix against forecasted demand or risk having inadequate supplies to meet consumer demand as well as having too much inventory on hand that may reach its expiration date and become unsaleable. If we are unable to manage our supply chain effectively and ensure that our products are available to meet consumer demand, our operating costs could increase and our profit margins could decrease. Virtually all of our finished goods inventory is located in one warehouse facility. Any damage or disruption at this facility would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Virtually all of our finished goods inventory is located in one warehouse facility owned and operated by a third party. A natural disaster, fire, power interruption, work stoppage or other unanticipated catastrophic event at this facility would significantly disrupt our ability to deliver our products and operate our business. If any material amount of our inventory were damaged, we would be unable to meet our contractual obligations and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Fluctuations in our results of operations for our second and fourth fiscal quarters and changes in our promotional activities may impact, and may have a disproportionate effect on, our overall financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations that may have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations. Historically, we have realized a higher portion of our net sales, net income and operating cash flows 21 Table of Contents in our second and fourth fiscal quarters due to our customers’ merchandising and promotional activities around the back-to-school and spring seasons. Any factors that harm our second and fourth fiscal quarter operating results, including disruptions in our supply chain, adverse weather or unfavorable economic conditions, may have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. In order to prepare for our peak seasons, we must order and maintain higher quantities of inventory than we would carry at other times of the year. As a result, our working capital requirements also fluctuate during the year, increasing in our first and third fiscal quarters in anticipation of our second and fourth fiscal quarters, respectively. Any unanticipated decline in demand for our products during our peak seasons could require us to sell excess inventory at a substantial markdown or write-off goods we are unable to sell, which could diminish our brand and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we offer a variety of sales and promotion incentives to our customers and to consumers, such as price discounts, consumer coupons, volume rebates, cooperative marketing programs, slotting fees and in-store displays. Our net sales are periodically influenced by the introduction and discontinuance of sales and promotion incentives. Reductions in overall sales and promotion incentives could impact our net sales and affect our results of operations in any particular fiscal quarter. Historical quarter-to-quarter and period-over-period comparisons of our sales and operating results are not necessarily indicative of future fiscal quarter-to-fiscal quarter and period-over-period results. You should not rely on the results of a single fiscal quarter or period as an indication of our annual results or our future performance. Failure to retain our senior management may adversely affect our operations. Our success is substantially dependent on the continued service of certain members of our senior management, including John M. Foraker, our Chief Executive Officer, or CEO. These executives have been primarily responsible for determining the strategic direction of our business and for executing our growth strategy and are integral to our brand and culture, and the reputation we enjoy with suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, retailers and consumers. The loss of the services of any of these executives could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects, as we may not be able to find suitable individuals to replace them on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, any such departure could be viewed in a negative light by investors and analysts, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We do not have employment agreements with our senior executives, other than our CEO, nor do we carry key-person life insurance on them. If we are unable to attract, train and retain employees, we may not be able to grow or successfully operate our business. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, train and retain a sufficient number of employees who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to represent our brand effectively and establish credibility with our business partners and consumers. If we are unable to hire and retain employees capable of meeting our business needs and expectations, our business and brand image may be impaired. Any failure to meet our staffing needs or any material increase in turnover rates of our employees may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on information technology systems and any inadequacy, failure, interruption or security breach of those systems may harm our ability to effectively operate our business. We are dependent on various information technology systems, including, but not limited to, networks, applications and outsourced services in connection with the operation of our business. A failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and loss of sales, causing our business to suffer. In addition, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from circumstances beyond our control, including fire, natural disasters, systems failures, viruses and security breaches. Any such damage or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business. 22 Table of Contents In addition, we sell our products over the internet through third-party websites, including those operated by Alice.com and Amazon.com. The website operations of such third parties may be affected by reliance on third-party hardware and software providers, technology changes, risks related to the failure of computer systems through which these website operations are conducted, telecommunications failures, electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Furthermore, the ability of our third-party partners to conduct these website operations may be affected by liability for online content and state and federal privacy laws. Failure to successfully implement our new enterprise resource planning system could impact our ability to operate our business, lead to internal control and reporting weaknesses and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are in the process of implementing a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, information management system to provide for greater depth and breadth of functionality and effectively manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, inventory and warehouse management and other business processes. A delay in such implementation, problems with transitioning to our upgraded system or a failure of our new system to perform as we anticipate may result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales, may otherwise disrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and may harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and production facilities, fulfill customer orders and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. In addition, due to the systemic internal control features within ERP systems, we may experience difficulties that may affect our internal control over financial reporting, which may create a significant deficiency or material weakness in our overall internal controls. The initial implementation launch date for our new ERP system was moved from April 2012 to July 2012 in order to provide additional time to test customized interfaces developed by a third party. The risks associated with implementation will be greater for us as a newly public company. An impairment of goodwill could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have significant goodwill related to previous acquisitions, which amounted to 43% of our total assets as of March 31, 2012. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. In accordance with GAAP, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, which we perform annually in the fourth fiscal quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Future events that may trigger impairment include, but are not limited to, significant adverse change in customer demand, the business climate or a significant decrease in expected cash flows. When impaired, the carrying value of goodwill is written down to fair value. In the event an impairment to goodwill is identified, an immediate charge to earnings would be recorded, which would adversely affect our operating results. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Goodwill.” Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock No market existed for our common stock prior to March 28, 2012, and we cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop for our stock. Prior to our initial public offering or IPO, there had been no public market for our common stock. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in our company will lead to the development of a trading market on the New York Stock Exchange or otherwise or how liquid that market might become. If an active market does not develop, you may have difficulty selling any shares of our common stock that you purchase. Additionally, because we will have a limited number of shares of common stock in our public float, the market for such shares may be illiquid, sporadic and volatile. As a result, there may be extreme fluctuations in the price of shares of our common stock. 23 Table of Contents Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you may lose part or all of your investment. The market price for our common stock is likely to be volatile, in part because our shares have only been traded publicly since March 28, 2012, and such volatility may be exacerbated by our relatively small public float. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • market conditions or trends in the natural and organic packaged food sales industry or in the economy as a whole; • seasonal fluctuations; • actions by competitors; • actual or anticipated growth rates relative to our competitors; • the public’s response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC; • economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; • any future guidance we may provide to the public, any changes in such guidance or any difference between our guidance and actual results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by any analysts who follow our common stock; • speculation by the press or investment community regarding our business; • litigation; • changes in key personnel; and • future sales of our common stock by our officers, directors and significant stockholders. In addition, the stock markets, including the New York Stock Exchange, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were involved in securities litigation, we could incur substantial costs and our resources and the attention of management could be diverted from our business. Future sales of our common stock, or the perception in the public markets that these sales may occur, may depress our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market after our IPO. These sales, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. Upon the consummation of our IPO, we had 16,654,813 shares of common stock outstanding. The 5,750,000 shares of common stock offered in the IPO are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, except for any shares of common stock that may be held or acquired by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, the sale of which will be restricted under the Securities Act. In addition, on April 30, 2012, we filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-8 registering 2,362,850 shares subject to outstanding options under our 2004 Stock Option Plan, or 2004 Plan, and pursuant to certain non-plan options and shares reserved for future issuance under our Omnibus Incentive Plan. Such shares are now eligible for sale in the public market, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. 24 Table of Contents Moreover, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement among us, Solera and certain of our other stockholders, dated as of November 14, 2005, some of our stockholders, including Solera, have the right to require us to register under the Securities Act any shares in our company not sold by such stockholders in this offering. If our existing stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or if the public perceives that such sales could occur, this could have an adverse impact on the market price of our common stock, even if there is no relationship between such sales and the performance of our business. In connection with our IPO, we, our directors and executive officers, the selling stockholders and certain other holders of our outstanding common stock and options have each agreed to certain lock-up restrictions. We and they and their permitted transferees will not be permitted to sell any shares of our common stock for 180 days (subject to extension) after March 27, 2012, the effective date of our prospectus, without the prior consent of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC may, in their sole discretion, release all or any portion of the shares of our common stock from the restrictions in any of the lock-up agreements described above. Also, in the future, we may issue shares of our common stock in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of our common stock. We are controlled by Solera, whose interests may conflict with those of our other stockholders. Upon consummation of our IPO, funds advised by Solera held approximately 59.0% of our voting power. So long as such funds continue to hold, directly or indirectly, shares of common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power of our common stock, Solera will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and will have significant control over our management and policies. Solera’s control may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or discouraging others from making tender offers for our shares, which could prevent stockholders from receiving a premium for their shares. These actions may be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. The interests of Solera may not always coincide with the interests of other stockholders, and Solera may act in a manner that advances its best interests and not necessarily those of our other stockholders. Any material weaknesses in our internal controls may impede our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements, which could cause us to fail to file our periodic reports timely, result in inaccurate financial reporting or restatements of our financial statements, subject our stock to delisting and materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. As a public company, we are required to file annual and quarterly periodic reports containing our financial statements with the SEC within prescribed time periods. As part of the NYSE listing requirements, we are also be required to provide our periodic reports, or make them available, to our stockholders within prescribed time periods. We may not be able to produce reliable financial statements or file these financial statements as part of a periodic report in a timely manner with the SEC or comply with the NYSE listing requirements. In addition, we could make errors in our financial statements that could require us to restate our financial statements. During fiscal 2012, we corrected an error in the measurement of our convertible preferred stock warrant liability, as described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Out-of-Period Adjustment.” Upon assessing the impact of this error, management determined that a restatement of our financial statements was not required. If we are required to restate our financial statements in the future for any reason, any specific adjustment may be adverse and may cause our results of operations and financial condition, as restated, to be materially adversely impacted. As a result, we or members of our management could be the subject of adverse publicity, stockholder lawsuits and investigations and sanctions by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any of the above consequences could cause our stock price to decline and could impose significant unanticipated costs on us. 25 Table of Contents However, for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company,” or EGC, as defined in the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, or JOBS Act, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not EGCs, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We may take advantage of these reporting exemptions until we are no longer an EGC. We will cease to be an EGC at the earliest of (A) the last day of the fiscal year which we have total annual gross revenues of $1,000,000,000 (as indexed for inflation in the manner set forth in the Jobs Act) or more; (B) the last day of the fiscal year in which the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act occurs (March 31, 2018); (C) the date on which we have, during the previous 3-year period, issued more than $1,000,000,000 in non-convertible debt; or (D) the date on which we are deemed to be a “large accelerated filer,” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act or any successor thereto. At such time as we no longer qualify as an EGC, as of each fiscal year end, commencing with the first fiscal year beginning after March 27, 2012, the effective date of our IPO, our management will be required to evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting and to provide to our stockholders in our Annual Report on Form 10-K its assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. At the same time, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting in the event we become an accelerated filer or large accelerated filer. To the extent we find material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls, we may determine that we have ineffective internal controls over financial reporting as of any particular fiscal year end, and we may receive an adverse assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting from our independent registered public accounting firm. Moreover, any material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls may delay the conclusion of an annual audit or a review of our quarterly financial results. If we are not able to issue our financial statements in a timely manner, or if we are not able to obtain the required audit or review of our financial statements by our independent registered public accounting firm in a timely manner, we will not be able to comply with the periodic reporting requirements of the SEC and the listing requirements of the NYSE. If these events occur, our common stock listing on the NYSE could be suspended or terminated and our stock price could materially suffer. In addition, we or members of our management could be subject to investigation and sanction by the SEC and other regulatory authorities and to stockholder lawsuits, which could impose significant additional costs on us, divert management attention and materially harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and stock price. Some of our operating expenses will increase significantly as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to complying with public company regulations. Until March 27, 2012, the date our registration statement was declared effective by the SEC, we operated as a private company. Upon effectiveness, we became a public company. As a public company, we will incur additional legal, accounting, compliance and other expenses that we have not incurred as a private company. We are obligated to file annual and quarterly information and other reports with the SEC as required by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and applicable SEC rules. In addition, we are subject to other reporting and corporate governance requirements, including certain requirements of the NYSE, which will impose significant compliance obligations upon us. We will need to institute a comprehensive compliance function, establish internal policies, ensure that we have the ability to prepare financial statements that are fully compliant with all SEC reporting requirements on a timely basis, utilize outside counsel and accountants in the above activities and establish an investor relations function. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NYSE, have imposed increased regulation and disclosure obligations and have required enhanced corporate governance practices of public companies. 26 Table of Contents However, while we qualify as an EGC under the JOBS Act, we may decide to make certain elections that would lessen such obligations. Nonetheless, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards are likely to result in increased administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from sales-generating activities. These changes will require a significant commitment of additional resources. We may not be successful in implementing these requirements, and implementing them could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not implement or comply with such requirements in a timely manner, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC or the NYSE. Any such action could harm our reputation and the confidence of investors and customers in our company and could materially adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. We are an “emerging growth company” and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an EGC, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not EGCs, including not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Although, the JOBS Act permits an EGC such as us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies, we are choosing to “opt out” of this provision and, as a result, we will comply with new or revised accounting standards as required when they are adopted. This decision to opt out of the extended transition period under the JOBS Act is irrevocable. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Moreover, if our operating results do not meet the expectations of the investor community, one or more of the analysts who cover our company may change their recommendations regarding our company, and our stock price could decline. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. These include provisions that: • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include voting, approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of our common stock; • classify our board of directors into three separate classes with staggered terms; • provide that once Solera ceases to own shares representing more than 50% of our total voting power, directors can only be removed for cause or by vote of shares representing 66 2/3% or more of our total voting power; • prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent once Solera ceases to beneficially own shares representing more than 50% of our total voting power; 27 Table of Contents • provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; • provide that once Solera ceases to own shares representing more than 50% of our total voting power, the stockholders can only adopt, amend or repeal our amended and restated bylaws with the affirmative vote of 66 2/3% or more of our total voting power; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; • prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings, except that Solera may call a special meeting until such time as Solera ceases to beneficially own shares representing 35% or more of our total voting power; and • provide our board of directors with the sole power to set the size of our board of directors and fill vacancies. These and other provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws could delay, defer or prevent us from experiencing a change of control or changes in our board of directors and management and may adversely affect our stockholders’ voting and other rights. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with a stockholder owning 15% or more of such corporation’s outstanding voting stock for a period of three years following the date on which such stockholder became an “interested” stockholder. In order for us to consummate a business combination with an “interested” stockholder within three years of the date on which the stockholder became “interested,” either (1) the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming “interested” must be approved by our board of directors prior to the date the stockholder became “interested,” (2) the “interested” stockholder must own at least 85% of our outstanding voting stock at the time the transaction commences (excluding voting stock owned by directors who are also officers and certain employee stock plans) or (3) the business combination must be approved by our board of directors and authorized by at least two-thirds of our stockholders (excluding the “interested” stockholder). This provision could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, whether or not it is desired by or beneficial to our stockholders. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors and management could deter potential acquirers or prevent the completion of a transaction in which our stockholders could receive a substantial premium over the then-current market price for their shares of our common stock. See “Description of Capital Stock—Delaware Anti-Takeover Statute” and “Description of Capital Stock—Anti-Takeover Effects of Certain Provisions of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws.” If we cannot satisfy or continue to satisfy the New York Stock Exchange’s independent committee requirements, our common stock may be delisted, which would negatively impact the price of our common stock and your ability to sell our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. We are utilizing the phase-in provisions afforded new public companies under the New York Stock Exchange rules with respect to certain independent committee requirements of the New York Stock Exchange. During the phase-in period, there will be times when we will not have fully independent board committees, which will leave us subject to the control of our existing non-independent directors. Moreover, if we are unable to comply with the independent committee requirements in the time period provided, we could be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange and face significant consequences, including: • limited availability for market quotations for our common stock; • reduced liquidity with respect to our common stock; • limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 